Security agencies committed human rights abuses against locals it has been revealed. A public inquiry on security held in Garsen on Friday heard that police and Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) brutalised residents. Residents also appealed to the Government to make the Justice Grace Nzioka commission report public and implement its recommendations before next year&#39;s elections to prevent violence. The commission investigated the ethnic clashes of 2012 and early 2013 in the county. The public hearing was organised by the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights (KNCHR). Mr Yakub Hajj Tita, a resident of Kone village, told the commission three KWS officers crushed his genitals after they found him in possession of alleged game meat at Drift near Garsen. He said although the meat was from a cow he slaughtered after it had broken its leg in the grazing field, the officers insisted it was bushmeat. &quot;The officers broke my arm and collar bone and took me to Garsen Police Station. They kicked my private parts and I can no longer meet my conjugal obligation since the 2009 incident,&quot; Mr Tita told the commission. READ MORE Police seize 12 tonnes of sandalwood in Samburu, Kenya Activist files petition to sack KWS team One man&rsquo;s 8,500km mission to save jumbos in Kenya one step at a time He was later charged with being in possession of uninspected meat and placed on a one month suspended probation. &nbsp;SCARED AWAY Mzee Abdul Bute, 86, told KNCHR his wife Amina and two children were allegedly brutalised and scared away from home by General Service Unit officers at the height of 2012 Tana Delta ethnic violence. His nine-year-old son, Yusuf, drowned during the incident. &quot;GSU officers brutalised by family leading to my son Yusuf&#39;s drowning. The body was retrieved by Kenya Red Cross and buried at Kilungu village days later. I demand justice from the Government,&quot; said Mr Bute. His wife, Amina, and son, Mohamed Bute, hid at the river bank and only returned home after things had calmed down. Commission chairperson Kagwiria Mbogori said residents had complained of high handedness among security agencies, grabbing of land by influential individuals and conflicts between farmers and pastoralists. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;