South Sudan government has asked the United Nations to reconsider the dismissal of Kenyan commander of the peace keeping force in the war torn nation. The Government termed as unceremonious and unfortunate the dismissal of Lt Gen Johnson Ondieki of UN Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS). On November 1, UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon announced he had fired Lt Gen Ondieki following an attack on civilians near the UN protected compound. South Sudan&#39;s Minister for Information, Communication and Technology Michael Makuel Lueth regretted the decision terming it as unwarranted as Ondieki had taken charge just three weeks before the fateful palace attack. &quot;It is important to note that General Ondieki from the Republic of Kenya took office barely three weeks before the attack at the Presidential palace,&quot; said Mr Lueth. Lueth said his government was cognizant of the key role Kenya plays in peace process in South Sudan and particularly through UNIMISS. READ MORE Unidentified gunman kills 9 soccer fans in South Sudan South Sudan urges UN to reconsider Gen Ondieki&rsquo;s dismissal Riek Machar faults Kenya for deporting top aide &quot;It is on this basis that the Government requests the UN to reconsider its decision, including consulting widely and appropriately with the Government of the Republic of Kenya,&quot; Lueth said. The minister also pleaded with the Kenyan government to reconsider its decision to withdraw troops from the world&#39;s youngest country. &quot;The South Sudan Government pleads with the Government of Kenya to give itself time as we hope the UN reviews and reconsiders its decision on the dismissal of Lieutenant Ondieki,&quot; said Lueth. He added: &quot;We hope the matter will be solved amicably with conformity with the standard operating procedures and to create mutual understanding among key stakeholders.&quot; The dismissal of Ondieki was was based on a UN investigative report that pointed out lack of leadership in the UNIMISS leading to the July 2016 attack that saw tens killed with foreign workers being raped. Consequently, Kenya through Foreign Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed immediately after the sacking of Ondieki announced the withdrawal of her 750 troops from the UN Peace keeping mission following the sacking. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;