The war on corruption boiled over yesterday, after the President and the Opposition leader engaged in a war of words over its handling. Whereas CORD leader Raila Odinga piled more pressure on the Government over its inability to stem graft, President Kenyatta took the unprecedented step of personally attacking his political nemesis for his continued criticism of his administration. Raila brushed off accusations that he was a beneficiary of corruption declaring he had not defended any thieves of public money and announced his party would table a Bill in Parliament to fast-track payment of suppliers by the Government so as to reduce corruption. &quot;The loss of money in Kilifi is pure theft. The money was wired through Central Bank, the directors of those companies are known and the persons are known. What else do you want the opposition to do?&quot; he added. But while addressing a crowd on his way to Kibabii University, President Kenyatta said although he appreciated Raila&#39;s role as an Opposition leader to criticise the Government, he detested his tendency to criticise everything the Government does. The Head of State wondered if everything associated with the Government was bad, wondering why Raila wants to lead a &#39;bad&#39; country. READ MORE Ruto accuses Raila of defending corruption Raila Odinga tears into Jubilee over land problems in Coast Ababu Namwamba accuses Raila of double standards on corruption &quot;Raila&#39;s job from morning to evening is to criticise my government. Such utterances cannot bring development. He does not see any positive thing to talk about this country. I wonder why he wants to lead a bad country,&quot; said Uhuru. During a press conference at Capitol Hill in Nairobi, Raila declared: &quot;I have never been a hypocrite. Theft is theft and one can be prosecuted under the penal code. The Jubilee administration controls the police, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and not the Opposition,&quot; said Mr Odinga. However, Majority Leader in the National Assembly, Adan Duale, during a Jubilee MPs&#39; press conference, named eight companies he claimed were beneficiaries of Sh308 million allegedly transferred from the Kilifi County government&#39;s accounts for an alleged land transaction. Duale on Wednesday sensationally claimed the Opposition is on a looting spree, revealing that Raila receives a monthly stipend from all the county governments that are headed by CORD governors. But CORD governors and MPS came out fighting, dismissing Duale&#39;s claims as diversionary tactics meant to hoodwink Kenyans. Elsewhere in Kilifi, there were nasty confrontations between supporters of Governor Amason Kingi and Gideon Mung&#39;aro (Kilfi North MP) over the disappearance of millions of shillings.