The anti-graft body is now targeting &#39;village millionaires&#39; following the new wave of reported corruption cases in the counties. Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission deputy Chief Executive Officer Michael Mubea said the commission has already set up regional offices in the counties where investigations and public inquest is ongoing to assess the risks. The exercise will also mark the hot spot areas and sectors in the counties with alleged corruption cases. Mubea said the new move of targeting county leaders should not be viewed as a deviation from corruption cases being witnessed at the national level. He referenced on the recent arraigning in court of Former Devolution Principal Secretary Peter Mangiti and other senior officers who are implicated in the Sh791 million National Youth Service (NYS) saga insisting that the commission is fully at work. &quot;The question should not be what we are doing because it is evident for everyone to see,&quot; said Mubea. READ MORE Revealed: Tricks Nyandarua ward reps use to earn allowances Uhuru to Raila: Stop smear campaign County assemblies on the spot over massive wastage of funds He added that regarding the Sh5 billion health scandal, the commission is still within the 30 day dead line and a report will be submitted to the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) in two weeks on the ongoing analyzation of evidence. &quot;Our challenge however are the numerous court injunctions suspects rush to court to obtain to avoid prosecution which drags disposal of corruption cases,&quot; said Mubea during a sensitization workshop held yesterday on integrity in Chapter Six of the constitution. Mubea said their latest attention to counties is on the backdrop that in the last three months, at least Sh1 trillion has trickled down to the county level but there is no development whatsoever to commensurate the funds. The EACC deputy boss said currently almost all governors are on the commission&#39;s radar: &quot;So expect more of them to face charges in the next one month.&quot; Currently, governors of Garissa, Kilifi, Kajiado, Kisii and Mombasa are among those under siege on corruption allegations. However EACC Acting Chair Sophia Lepuchirit said the commission will be narrowing even further to senior county officials like county ministers and directors. &quot;If you go to counties you will not miss these &#39;small millionaires&#39; who most of them were paupers before they joined public service but now they are suddenly rich with heavy vehicles and skyscraper buildings,&quot; said Lepuchirit. She added: &quot;Our assets recovery team is powerful and I assure you, they will not benefit from any of their loot.&quot;