A social media storm precipitated by the recent face off between Nairobi County governorship aspirants Miguna Miguna and Esther Passaris during a live television show on KTN has brought to the fore the implicit and explicit narratives that surround sexual slanted gender-bashing in the political and social space. At the heart of this public discourse are two emerging strands of argument albeit at the extremes. The first castigates Miguna Miguna for remarks made on the person of Esther Passaris which while bashing her candidature firmly impinge on her sexuality. The second calls into question the inability of the host, in this case Jeff Koinange, to moderate the debate in a professional manner. Perceptions of masculine and female sexuality have often been steeped in controversy due to customary norms and the influences of religion. One would think that in secular states like Kenya, the Constitution would be the overarching framework of social and state relationships but alas, when it comes to matters of sexuality, seldom is this the case. On one hand there is a camp that strongly aligns to conservative interpretation of what is sexually acceptable while on the other there is the camp that premises its belief on and a liberal interpretation as long as this is premised within freedom of choice and legal provisions. There is a third camp that straddles both conservative and liberal divides depending on the situation and convenience. It is, therefore, common to find a person who condemns extra marital affairs but is comfortable shielding a rape perpetrator in the event it is a relative or a person who ridicules prostitution but finds no problem with inter generational sexual liaisons popularly known as the sponsor phenomenon. But it is high time that we come to a place of accepting that female sexual agency is not the preserve of men nor does it require the authorisation or endorsement of men. The decisions women make concerning whom to have sexual relationships with need to be respected as personal and private and not the subject of male vetting or approval. It cannot be that men are so idle to the extent they give themselves the supreme role of apportioning moral standards and by so doing relish bashing women based on the exercise of their sexual choices. It is this aspect that perhaps escaped Miguna Miguna who sought to castigate Esther Passaris largely using claims of rape. For the record, the mockery of rape survivors is tantamount to endorsing the practice and to an extent, acquiescence to the same. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;