Brand Kenya Director Chris Diaz was awarded and listed as one of the Most Influential Global Marketing Leaders by the World Marketing Congress (WMC) and World Brand Congress (WBC) on Saturday, November 26, 2016 at the Taj Hotel in Mumbai, India.Diaz who is also the Marketing Director of Kenya Airways was recognized for positioning Kenya positively on the global stage, by &#39;marketing Africa in global markets as a Trustee of Brand Africa. Speaking after receiving the award, Mr Diaz said that the success of African marketing leaders continues to grow and be recognized globally.&quot;We have many strong brands and marketers in Africa who are influencing more investments and tourists into Kenya and the wider African market,&quot; said Diaz &quot;Africa has great strength of marketers. We have been championing modern marketing solutions and trends which include digital marketing which is transforming marketing strategies of most brands. This is making Africa compete in the global marketing space with world-class standards,&quot; added Diaz. The World Marketing congress is an annual event at which marketers from around the globe are rewarded for their achievements in raising standards of development and experience of global marketers through their contributions to both sustainability and environmental issues and best-in-class marketing strategies.Recipients are selected by an experienced and prestigious panel of judges after many rounds of evaluations and critical analysis of their leadership credentials and ability to achieve marketing excellence, brand building abilities and outstanding contribution to mentor marketing professionals. Candidates from more than 50 countries are considered for this award. According to Diaz African brands still have huge opportunities for marketing themselves beyond the continent and competing evenly with the major global brands. &quot; We need to invest in strong marketing teams as the demand for marketing as a career grows. There is need for more investments in training and development for global marketers,&quot; he added. Diaz has had a distinguished career in Marketing. He was the first marketing leader from Africa to serve on the board of the Chartered Institute of Marketing UK.He is also a fellow of the Marketing Society of Kenya and has a wealth of experience been working with multiple segments and industries. Before joining KQ, Diaz was the Marketing and Business Director at BIDCO group where he still serves as a non-executive director.