One of Mombasa&rsquo;s oldest health institutions, Pandya Memorial Hospital, is embroiled in a land saga after the National Land Commission accused it of building some of it wings on a school land. However, Pandya hospital administrator Rajesh Shukla has denied the allegations of grabbing part of the land belonging to Mbaraki Girls Primary School, even as NLC chairman Muhammad Swazuri insists his commission has already started the process of restoring it. According to Prof Swazuri, another company, a madrassa and an individual have also been implicated in the encroachment, which has seen the school cumulatively lose two acres of its land. According to the National Land Commission (NLC), up to a quarter of the hospital&#39;s land belongs to Mbaraki Girls Primary School. But the hospital has rejected the claims, insisting that it got the land legally. The disputed part of the hospital houses the out-patient wing and doctors&#39; plaza, which are new sections of the hospital. READ MORE Title for Langata primary 'still in hands' of land grabbers Swazuri orders probe on Solio Settlement Scheme Uhuru lashes out at opponents of SGR Nairobi National Park route The hospital was built by Mamujee Brothers Foundation and started operations on February 24, 1947. NLC wants the hospital to restore the section of grabbed land to the school or prove its ownership claim within seven days. THREE DEVELOPERS On Monday, NLC chairman Muhammad Swazuri caused a stir when he toured the school, which was established in 1950, and declared the hospital and three other developers have taken the school&#39;s land and warned the alleged illegal acquisition will be reversed. Prof Swazuri said: &quot;Pandya Hospital has encroached on part of the school land and we have initiated the process of restoring the land.&quot; But the hospital administrator, Mr Rajesh Shukla, denied the allegations of irregular acquisition of the land, saying they followed procedure and have all the necessary ownership documents, including a title deed and letters of allotment. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;