The National Treasury will direct&nbsp;much of its spending on infrastructure&nbsp;projects, education, health and&nbsp;the General Election, a draft Budget&nbsp;Policy Statement for the 2017/18 financial&nbsp;year indicates. Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich&nbsp;(pictured) plans to spend Sh2.275 trillion&nbsp;in the course of the next financial&nbsp;year, which is a marginal increase&nbsp;compared to Sh2.048 trillion for this&nbsp;financial that ends on June 30, 2017. The National Treasury has unveiled a cautious expenditure plan for the next financial year as the country heads to a tough election year. In its draft Budget Policy Statement for the 2017/18 financial year, the Government said it would spend Sh2.275 trillion in the course of the next financial year. This is a slight increase compared to Sh2.048 trillion that is the total budget for this financial that ends June 30, 2017. It, however, went ahead to give goodies to the counties, allocating an extra Sh32.7 billion to the devolved units and factored in salary increases for civil servants. The draft Budget Policy Statement was last week subjected to scrutiny by the public, after which the Treasury will take feedback for inclusion in the statement before presenting it to the Cabinet. READ MORE Why Kenya wants to switch to Chinese yuan National debt rises as Sh506 billion borrowed in 2015 Portland Cement shareholders face more dividend drought as profits dip According to the statement, the August 2018 elections will be a key area of expenditure, with the aim of facilitating the Independent Boundaries and Election Commission (IEBC) prepare for and manage the process. Other key spending areas include infrastructure, education and health. Priority programmes &ldquo;Going forward, spending on infrastructure, education, health and social safety net and preparations for the elections remains a priority. Implementation of priority programmes will be monitored closely so as to realise benefits and maintain positive growth momentum, create jobs, reduce poverty and inequality,&rdquo; said National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich. &ldquo;The Government has allocated adequate resources to the IEBC towards the management of voter registration and electoral operations for the 2017 General Election and its 2017 Budget Policy Statement aftermath.&rdquo; Rotich noted that the monies allocated for the management of the election process will ensure accountability as well as stability and a violence free period. Treasury had released the Budget Policy Statements to the public for comments as is the requirement by the Public Finance Management Act and the Constitution. According to Treasury, IEBC will be allocated Sh19.4 billion during 2017/18 financial year, which is comparable to Sh19.3 billion allocated for the current financial year. The money allocated during the two financial years are expected to help the body manage the elections, after which Treasury allocations will significantly dip to Sh6 billion in the 2018/19 financial. The management of the electoral process has been bundled together with other areas collectively under the Governance, Justice, Law and Order sector. The sector will collectively be allocated Sh192.84 billion over the 2017/18 financial year. Much of the money will be used to pay for day to day running of the institutions, which is seen in the recurrent budget of Sh169.46 billion. The remaining Sh23.38 billion will be for development budget. &ldquo;Some of the Sector&rsquo;s critical and priority areas... include modernisation of policing services; preparation and management of the 2017 general election; scaling-up issuance of third generation IDs; registration, regulation and funding of political parties,&rdquo; said Treasury in the statement. The sector also has the role of securing the Kenya-Somali border, undertake initiatives centering on national cohesion and integration; decentralisation of prosecution services; modernisation, automation and decentralisation of key sub-sector&rsquo;s programmes to all the counties; entrenchment of democracy and promotion and mainstreaming of human rights; gender equality and non-discrimination across all sub-sectors. Rotich said the Budget Policy Statement is on the background of a tough environment both at the global and regional levels and had been aptly themed &lsquo;consolidating economic gains in an environment of subdued global demand&rsquo;. &ldquo;The Kenyan economy remains resilient registering strong economic growth of 5.6 per cent in 2015 compared to the average growth of 3.4 per cent for Sub-Saharan Africa and 3.2 per cent for global economy,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Further, our macroeconomic performance remains broadly stable with overall inflation within target.&rdquo; GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;