NAIROBI: Detectives at Gigiri Police Division are hunting down a city businessman and a licensed firearm holder over assault and misuse of firearm in an incident where he assaulted a reveller at a popular city club. The businessman, a Mr Chris Obure, is said to have physically assaulted Daniel Alex Lwin and fired several times in the air at K1 Klub House in Parklands following a confrontation allegedly involving a woman. Obure is said to have drawn his gun after suspected altercation with Lwin and fired seven times in the air and physically assaulted Alex after hitting him with the butt of his gun. The complainant reported the matter at Parklands Police Station under OB No: 6/2/11/2016. According to a police report seen by The Standard after the matter was reported at Parklands, Obure is yet to be traced. Consequently, the Officer Commanding the Station (OCS) has called for assistance to have the suspect arrested and his firearm confiscated. READ MORE Police officer in Sh3.5 million heist fails to take plea 3 pistols recovered at an undeveloped plot in Karen Unlikely alliances emerge as leaders fight for political survival &quot;This bearer of this letter is one namely Daniel Alex Lwin and has reported the above quoted case to us. The P3 Form has been filled and is held by us. Please assists the bearer of this note to arrest the same and call us for collection. Note that the suspect is a licensed firearm holder, so you may confiscate the item when traced.&quot; A police report at Parklands Police Station reads in part. However, Obure is yet to be arrested and disarmed. His gun has not been subjected to ballistic analysis. The high number of cases of gun misuse by licensed civilian firearm holders have exposed weak gun law violation control measures and alleged corruption in issuance of firearms at the Central Firearms Bureau. In June this year, a 53 year old Briton national Wananchi Group Holdings LTD (WGH), Chief Executive Officer was charged with murder of his 42 year old Kenyan girlfriend at his rental residence in Karen using his firearm. The same month, a 35-year-old property developer, Leonard Kanari and a licensed firearm holder shot dead a love rival in a case of love triangle. In 2012, police arrested and charged Jackson Maina Wangui, one of the directors of Club Click on Baricho Road after he shot and killed a reveller following a commotion. Maina was a licensed firearm holder. In 2014, controversial businessman Raj Devani was disarmed by police after he became violent at his residence in Westlands. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;