A middle aged man has been sentenced to two years imprisonment or a fine of sh800,00 by a Nakuru court. Stephen Kariuki Mumbi was found guilty of an offense of being in possession of game trophy valued at sh100, 000 without authority from Kenya Wildlife Conservation Management. He also faced another charge of dealing with the sale of game trophy without a dealer&#39;s license contrary to section 56 (2) of the wild life conservation cat cap 376 laws of Kenya. The man was found with two Leopard skins in May 2012 at Nakuru Township. A Kenya Wildlife Service worker Michael Kiplangat who testified in court told the court that he received a call from a member of the public who informed him that someone was looking for a purchaser of leopard skin. He asked the seller&#39;s number and called him acting as a purchaser and they agreed to meet in Nakuru. READ MORE S.African police probing allegation of rhino poaching against minister Man trampled to death by herd of stray jumbos in Maasai Mara Garsen residents recount brutality at the hands of Kenyan security agencies He proceeded with two of his colleagues from Langata to Taidy&#39;s Parking in Nakuru where the seller had directed him. Kiplangat met the seller who showed him a sack with two leopard skins tied on a motorcycle. The KWS worker signaled his colleagues who stood some distance away and the man was arrested and taken to Central Police Station with the skins. A colleague to Kiplangat, Ahmed Ali stated that he was in company of Kiplangat and said that they arrested Kariuki together. His evidence was in agreement to what Kiplangat said. The skins were taken to Esther Nguta of National Museums of Kenya who said that she received the skins on September 2015 when she was instructed to establish which animal it belonged to. In her analysis and report presented in court she said they belonged to a leopard. In his defense Kariuki that on the date of arrest he was riding on a motorcycle when a customer asked him to drop him at Taidy&#39;s. He took them there when two people arrested him and took him to police station with a customer&#39;s sack which opening they found two leopard skins. The customer he said was not arrested. He however said the officers from KWS just talked to the seller and allowed him to leave. According to the court&#39;s judgment it was established that there was nobody aboard the motorcycle during his arrest. The skins were in his custody and were proved he had no permit to deal with such or even be in possession. &quot;His intention was not to possess, the fact that he agreed to meet Kiplangat a willing buyer meant he wanted to transact in the same and sale,&quot; read part of the judgment. Senior Resident Magistrate Judicaster Nthuku in her judgment stated that the prosecution had proved its case beyond reasonable doubt against Kariuki and convicted him under section 215 of the Criminal Procedure Code Cap 75 laws of Kenya. In mitigation the accused prayed for a non-custodial sentence. He said he had children and was their sole provider. The court overruled his mitigation and granted him 14 days to appeal. It further ordered that the skins be returned to KWS. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;