At his homecoming party on Saturday, ACK Archbishop Jackson ole Sapit made an impassioned plea for peace and unity as the country gears up for the August 2017 elections. Most importantly, he persuaded the political class to give politics a break and debate issues. Yet as he advocated for issue-driven debates and tolerance and accepting that those of divergent opinion and persuasion ought not to be viewed as anathema, the politicians who were among the thousands of guests at the event turned the platform into an arena for political contest. All indications are that next year&rsquo;s elections will be hard fought, but not on ideology and policy. And sadly, that will be another missed opportunity for Kenyans who feel that the ruling class has done little to make their lives better. There is little talk on the worsening state of the economy or runaway corruption; or the brittle unity; or the lack of cohesion and a common agenda on national issues. Take the economy for example: in truth, the economy is strained; it is not expanding as quickly and widely as to create enough jobs for the unemployed youth or to safeguard existing jobs. READ MORE Floods wash away part of SGR project Kalonzo: I&rsquo;ll only back Raila if he&rsquo;s going to win the next polls Governor Ruto tells Kenyans to get rid of Jubilee in the next polls So despite proclamations by the Jubilee-led administration that all is well, at the end of this month, at least 2,000 Kenyans will have lost their jobs as the private sector acts to protect shareholder interests. From financial institutions to motor vehicle dealers, to the hospitality industry, to media, there is a tightening of belts akin to the 1990s when the economy was on its knees. Yet nobody will miss the irony of the heavy construction underway across the country; from the Standard Gauge Railway; to mega road constructions; to skyscrapers piercing the skies of most towns. The impression is that the economy is growing. But why is the growth not felt across the economy? What is not happening? On the other hand, the Opposition CORD has done little to show that it is a Government-in-waiting. Sadly, that will deny Kenyans a real choice at the ballot box. Indeed, we have heard little on policy from them; certainly nothing concrete on the economy, corruption, leadership, tribalism and impunity that is denying deserving Kenyans opportunity. In fact, what you hear so often from them is that depressingly familiar line that suggests that they rather it were they and not Jubilee with their noses at the trough. In truth, the Kenyan Opposition is mute, in a permanent state of paralysis often issuing sterile ultimatums that lack conviction, focus and strategy. Ultimatums that are only good for TV soundbites. In other democracies, an economic downturn like the one experienced in the country is enough reason to topple a sitting government. Not here. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;