CORD leader Raila Odinga has in recent weeks stepped up efforts to win back the support he once enjoyed in the North Rift. The ODM leader has made numerous visits to the area, and during a tour of Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s Uasin Gishu backyard on Tuesday, he made it clear that if his party is elected, it would improve security and address many of the problems that local people face. Raila said the Jubilee administration had failed to address these problems, and asked voters in the region to support his bid for the presidency in next year&rsquo;s General Election. The rousing welcome Raila received from the large crowd at the meeting in Meibeki appeared to indicate the approval his comments elicited before he left for the volatile Kerio Valley, which has been the epicentre of violence between the Pokot and Marakwet communities. More than 20 people have been killed this year, while hundreds others have been displaced as the conflict raged. Raila was in Nandi last Saturday where he attended the burial of former Nandi County Council chairperson Sarah Jemutai. READ MORE Let&rsquo;s all rise and say no to divisive campaigns Trader's entry into Kiambu governor race a game changer Raila says Karua's decision does not worry him and will not shake CORD Runaway corruption He criticised the Jubilee government for its inability to contain runaway corruption, which he said was orchestrated by well-connected state officers. During Raila&rsquo;s visit to Kerio Valley, some residents accused the Jubilee administration of abandoning the region, despite the overwhelming support it received in the 2013 elections. William Kipruto said the region felt more appreciated by the Kibaki administration, which appointed the first person from there to a Cabinet position and ensured a tarmac road was built. &ldquo;But the Jubilee administration has rewarded the 99.9 per cent votes we gave them with utter contempt. We will vote against them in the coming elections,&rdquo; Kipruto, a resident, vowed. ODM has identified agriculture, corruption, insecurity and unfulfilled promises by Jubilee as key issues that local people want addressed. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;