A group of former cabinet ministers and MPs, some who have been in the political cold for 15 years, are plotting a comeback in the 2017 General Election. Some of the big names from the former Nyanza Province already in the campaign trail are former Energy Minister and Rongo MP Ochilo Ayacko and former Assistant Ministers Omingo Magara and Ayiecho Olweny. Ayacko is eyeing the Migori governor&rsquo;s seat while Magara, who is the Chairman of the People&rsquo;s Democratic Party (PDP), has expressed interest in the Kisii senatorial seat. Also on the list of those keen to make a comeback are ex-MPs Pollyns Daima (Nyakach), Owino Likowa Migori - now Suna), Ken Nyagudi (Kisumu Town Central), Ojwang Omollo (Uriri), Paddy Ahenda (Kabondo Kasipul), Ochoro Ayoki (Kisumu Rural) and Otieno Ogindo (Homa Bay Town). Ayoki is eyeing the Kisumu Senate seat in a bid to succeed Prof Anyang Nyong&rsquo;o, who wants to oust Governor Jack Ranguma. Ayoki is, however, likely to face an uphill task in his bid as he is planning to contest on a Jubilee Party ticket in an opposition stronghold. READ MORE Governor Ruto: We have nothing to show from Jubilee Kenya government should fund party nominations IEBC best suited to manage party nominations &ldquo;I am at liberty to vie for the seat on any political party. The Senate seat is not a preserve of any political party or any one. I will go for it to win,&rdquo; Ayoki told The Standard on Sunday. He will battle it out with Nyando MP Fred Outa and Ocholla Ogoda, both of ODM. Outa has launched his bid and has held several meetings ahead of the primaries. Nyagudi, who lost his seat to Olago Aluoch in 2007, has shifted sight to Kisumu Central and will be competing against MP Ken Obura. Olweny, the former Education assistant minister, is eyeing the Muhoroni parliamentary seat. He will battle it out against incumbent Onyango Koyoo. Down south in Kisii, Magara wants to succeed Senator Chris Obure who beat him in the 2013 polls. The PDP chair believes he lost the seat because of his party&rsquo;s then affiliation to the Jubilee coalition. &ldquo;I made the wrong political move in 2013 and voters shunned me at the ballot. But this time, I am weighing in on the right choice,&rdquo; argued Magara. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;