Blacks have four dubious distinctions according to Donald Trump, the President-elect of the world&rsquo;s sole superpower&ndash; the United States of America. Africans are lazy fools. Africans like sex and are good at love-making. Africans are also thieves, and for good measure he said, especially Kenyans. You may have seen the newspaper cutting doing the rounds on the digital sphere, reporting him in Indianapolis last year October: &ldquo;African-Americans are lazy. The best they can do is gallivanting around ghettoes, lamenting how they are discriminated.&rdquo; He then said he would deport all of them, led by Kenyans, for whom he has given a stronger prescription of hate because of their affinity to his predecessor, Barack Obama, the son of a Kenyan father. &ldquo;From the government to the Opposition, they only qualify to be used as case study wherever bad examples are required. How do you even trust even those who have run to hide here in the United States, hiding behind education?&rsquo;&rsquo; asked the vitriolic and bad-mouthed leader. Mr Trump is a specialist in objectification of women. And you heard him say where he likes to grope them. READ MORE Triumphant Trump may have to win over a court jury before taking office Trump&rsquo;s victory a reversal of fortune for Obama Trump vs Obama: The stark differences and open similarities This is what this former television personality and property mogul had to say of his own daughter: &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve said if Ivanka weren&rsquo;t my daughter, perhaps I&rsquo;d be dating her.&rdquo; American families, who teach their children to frown at bigotry, pride, arrogance and foul behaviour face a huge dilemma. On his opponent, yet another proof that Americans in this election were limited by choice because of her elitist and privileged past but buoyed by the fact that she could easily have become the first woman President of the US, Mr Trump said: &ldquo;The only card (Hillary Clinton) has is the woman&rsquo;s card. She&rsquo;s got nothing else to offer and frankly, if Hillary Clinton were a man, I don&rsquo;t think she&rsquo;d get 5 per cent of the vote. The only thing she&rsquo;s got going is the woman&rsquo;s card, and the beautiful thing is, women don&rsquo;t like her.&rdquo; But this clownish leader who campaigned on the platform of reclaiming America&rsquo;s alleged lost glory (you understand how white supremacy and racism work) also does not like immigrants, and for good measure, the Mexicans and Africans. Yet this is a country that fashioned itself as the icon of democracy and the &lsquo;free world&rsquo;, it is itself a cocktail of immigrants, the blacks having been ferried and millions died in the Atlantic Ocean, as slaves in hand and foot chains. He also does not like Muslims and he even said he will have the relatives of ISIS terrorists killed on their behalf. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;