&nbsp; Mombasa County Govenrment has started clambing prime properties within the county in a bide to recover land rates amounting to more than Sh14 billion from property owners, November 15, 2016. Among them is ths TSS Towers which is owned by Mombasa business tycoon Twahir Sheik Said and Spendid Hotel among others. [PHOTO BY GIDEON MAUNDU/STANDARD]. Property owners in Mombasa are in a panic after the county government started to attach properties over unpaid rates. The county seeks to recover Sh14 billion in unpaid rates and is targeting 426 prime properties. Some of the buildings targeted include TSS Towers on Nkrumah Road and the iconic Splendid Hotel on Msanifu Kombo Road in the central business district. Government institutions and ministries are the biggest defaulters, owing the county government Sh6 billion in land rates. State corporations targeted include Kenya Broadcasting Corporation and Kenya Railways Corporation. The county government has begun a process that will see land rate defaulters lose their property. READ MORE MOMBASA: Shanzu halt Voroni's promotion march Mombasa County seeks land for water cleansing plant Mombasa governor aspirants target ethnic blocs in tight race Governor Hassan Joho&rsquo;s government is owed Sh14 billion in unpaid land rates that have accrued for years. This is enough to run the county smoothly for two years. Mombasa gets about Sh5.7 billion a year in equitable share from the Exchequer. To recover this debt, the county will take over ownership of 426 units of prime property, some of which are located in the central business district. Some of the targeted buildings are TSS Towers on Nkrumah Road and Splendid Hotel on Msanifu Kombo Road where notices were placed warning of the impending takeover. TSS Towers is owned by business mogul Twahir Sheikh, whose empire is embroiled in multi-faceted legal battles involving his children and bankers. County Lands Executive Antony Njaramba confirmed the notices placed on prime properties - mainly land - across the county as part of the recovery process. &ldquo;We have clamped 426 properties as at yesterday (Monday). We have so far recovered Sh50 million in the process,&rdquo; Mr Njaramba said yesterday. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;