Mombasa Governor Hassan Ali Joho and Kilifi North MP Gideon Mung&rsquo;aro have differed over plan to establish a dry port in Eldoret to clear transit goods. Mr Joho criticised the plan, terming it a ploy to relocate key port services to Eldoret, but Mung&rsquo;aro said the governor was only concerned about his Container Freight Service (CFS) businesses. &ldquo;We will not tire from opposing any move aimed to take away port business from Mombasa to Eldoret. The dry port is a scheme to rob the Mombasa port of key services,&rdquo; said Joho. Industry experts, however, said there is no reason to worry given the dry port is aimed at decongesting the Port of Mombasa, and dismissed assertions that it would kill the port business. Daniel Nzeki, chief executive officer of the Container Freight Station (CFS) Association, said the concept of dry ports has existed for long and members were not worried about it. &ldquo;The dry ports have been there except that cargo will be moved by the Standard Gauge Railway. We are not opposed to any new business environment because we are ready for challenges in the market,&rdquo; said Mr Nzeki. Dry ports are extensions that provide storage for goods for import or export. Currently, KPA runs a dry port at Embakasi in Nairobi which is fully operational. Those in Eldoret and Kibos in Kisumu are still dormant. READ MORE Global experts call for more investment in education Dutch fruits ripened by software Portland Cement looks to land sales to fund turnaround In July, this year, Kenya Port Authority (KPA) and the Uasin Gishu county government announced plans to establish the depot in Eldoret to handle transit cargo to neighbouring countries. Last week, Deputy President William Ruto hit out at Joho, claiming he was spreading propaganda against the project. Joho has said the dry port would transfer key services to Eldoret thereby causing massive job losses at the Mombasa port and CFSs. But Mung&rsquo;aro said dry ports close to industries in upcountry or near the destination would reduce congestion in Mombasa and also ensure port efficiency. He said the concept of inland container depots or dry ports was adopted several years back by the Government when KPA established the facilities at Embakasi in Nairobi, Kisumu and Eldoret. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t understand why Joho is complaining now. He may only be defending his own businesses,&rdquo; Mung&rsquo;aro said.