Opposition leader Raila Odinga has accused the Government of failing to address historical injustices. The CORD leader said the Jubilee administration has not been willing to implement the recommendations of the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission (TJRC) Report. Raila claimed both President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto were part of the historical injustices, especially land, and cannot be trusted with the implementation of the report. &ldquo;I have said again and again that President Kenyatta and his deputy Ruto are part of the problem and cannot be part of the solution,&rdquo; said Mr Odinga. Addressing a delegation from Narok, Kajiado and Samburu counties yesterday, Raila said the duo were not interested in finding solutions to the challenges facing the Maa community. SMEAR CAMPAIGN READ MORE Reprieve for farmers as Uhuru cancels Sh2.4b debts UhuRuto charm fails to work on Karua as she refuses to join Jubilee Raila attacks Uhuru over Waiguru and Ruto aides &ldquo;The Maa community has suffered under successive regimes. They have been driven from their swathes of land since pre-colonial period and that is why we formed TJRC so that those injustices can be addressed,&rdquo; he said. The former Premier said the challenges facing the Maa community in Laikipia, Samburu, Narok and Kajiado are a replica of the issues affecting the entire country and will only be fixed when an Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) government is put in place. Yesterday, Raila defended himself against accusations made by Uhuru that he (Odinga) had embarked on a smear campaign in a bid to promote voter apathy in his support base. Raila also maintained that he won the 2007 elections and was only too generous to former President Mwai Kibaki to allow him to serve under the Grand Coalition Government after the post-election violence that left more than 1,300 people dead and thousands displaced. At the same time, Raila asked Uhuru to stop &ldquo;owning&rdquo; critical infrastructural projects like the construction of the Standard Gauge Railway and the Itare water dam. Present were governors Josephat Nanok (Turkana) and John Mruttu (Taita-Taveta), MPs John Mbadi (Suba), Thomas Mwadegu (Wundanyi), Junet Mohamed (Suna East), Simba Arati (Dagoretti North), Tom Kajwang&rsquo; (Ruaraka) and a host of aspirants.