The decision by Kenya to withdraw its troops and disengage fully from the South Sudan peace process is unfortunate. The UN, on its part, while appreciating Kenya&rsquo;s long-standing relationship with UN peacekeeping and to UNMISS, has accepted the decision to withdraw. This is a very unfortunate situation that should not have come to this. The genesis is the decision of the UN Secretary General to sack the Kenyan commander of the peace-keeping force in South Sudan. Ban Ki-moon dismissed Lt Gen Johnson Ondieki after a report said it had failed to protect civilians in July. Kenya immediately rejected the sacking, terming it &lsquo;disrespectful&rsquo;. And Kenya is right on this front. In a strong-worded language, President Uhuru Kenyatta said regional peace should not come at the expense of the country&rsquo;s dignity, honour and pride. The country has in the past played a key role in efforts to stabilise South Sudan. Right from the period under Former President Daniel Moi, Kenya has been a key player in peace negotiations in South Sudan. She has played host to thousands of South Sudan refugees and continues to do so. Hence the feeling that the decision by the UN demonstrates complete disregard for Kenya&rsquo;s key role. READ MORE 800 soldiers quit Kenya Defence Forces after Somali invasion Angry Uhuru pulls Kenyan troops out of South Sudan Kenya withdraws peace keeping troops from South Sudan The UN should have handled the situation better, and in consultation with Kenya. Kenya has often complained of being taken for granted by UN and Western countries on issues affecting the region. This was the case with Somalia and it is the case now in South Sudan. But on the South Sudan front, Kenya should not throw out all her efforts over the years over this incidence. The latest action threatens to undo the work and investment Kenya has made towards peace in South Sudan over the years. She should continue to have the long-term goal for South Sudan and the region at heart.