During the launch of the Integrated Financial Management System in August 2014, Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich talked big. He said IFMIS would enhance transparency and accountability in the use of public finances. Those who believed him thought that IFMIS would deter corruption and fraud, limit political discretion in resource allocation and generally ensure public resources are deployed effectively. Alas, recent cases of scandals where it is feared that the taxpayer could have lost billions of shillings are putting to test Mr Rotich&#39;s proclamation. From the scam at the National Youth Service, to the audit issues uncovered recently at Afya House, to the county governments where billions of shillings have been lost, the integrity of the IFMIS system is being questioned. Governors are calling for a review of the system and if possible, a complete abandonment altogether. Their argument is that just like the Sh38 billion Medical Equipment Supplies Scheme, IFMIS was forced on them. So while the National Treasury had launched e-Procurement with the aim of promoting openness and accountability in the use of public funds, numerous complaints about the procurement process and the award of tenders have been raised. Many find it opaque and shrouded in mystery. Could it be that the bureaucrats are fighting back to sabotage the project? In which case, therefore, political will is needed? Or was the switch-over to IFMIS managed well? Or is it a case of cyber crime? These are questions that won&#39;t go away. On the other hand, nobody can rule out the possibility that governors are attempting to cover up theft in their backyards. After all, haven&#39;t a few of them been fingered in corruption reports? IFMIS is a universally accepted system that has had no problems in other places. Throwing out the baby with the bath water is therefore ill-advised. After all, the technology deployed is only as good as the people using it. And in any case, deploying IFMIS was in line with the Government&#39;s Public Financial Management Reforms. READ MORE Ababu Namwamba accuses Raila of double standards on corruption Raila pockets huge chunk of money looted from counties, claim MPs China arrests three Australian Crown Resorts employees