Two Cabinet Secretaries have defended the Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS) which has been blamed for massive loss of public funds. Finance and Planning CS Henry Rotich and his Devolution counterpart Mwangi Kiunjuri said had it not been for the system, more tax payers money would have been lost in the 47 counties. The CSs noted that it was through the use of IFMIS that the government managed to track down the movement of over Sh791 million which was meant for National Youth Service programmes. &quot;It&#39;s the system that assisted in monitoring and subsequent tracing of the money right from Central Bank to the dubious companies said to have benefited from NYS proceeds,&quot; Rotich said. They were reacting to sentiments by opposition leader Raila Odinga and chairman of Council of Governors, Peter Munya, that IFMIS has loopholes that must be sealed for the war on corruption to be won. Munya blamed the system for the loss of Sh51 million Kilifi county funds, saying Governor Amason Kingi was not at fault as he quickly initiated investigations to prevent&nbsp; further loss of money. READ MORE Revealed: How banks moved Sh6.3b NYS cash Governors: Kenya is being looted through IFMIS Nakuru school proprietor testifies against Kihika kin Speaking at Karatina during a fundraiser in aid of PCEA church yesterday, Rotich noted the system was responsible for the transparency and accountability being witnessed both at counties and national level. He said the government would continue improve the system to prevent loss of funds and dismissed those against it saying they were misinformed. His counterpart in the devolution ministry dismissed criticism against the system as propaganda. &quot;The assertion by governors that it (IFMIS) was abetting corruption is farfetched and doesn&#39;t hold water. It has in fact managed to promote transparency and accountability,&quot; Kiunjuri stated. Kiujuri accused the opposition of launching propaganda campaigns to paint the Jubilee administration as corrupt. &quot;A lot of flagship projects under Jubilee&nbsp; are almost complete, yet the opposition is discrediting them to gain political mileage,&quot; he said.