Businessman Wycliffe Wangamati addressing mourners in Kanduyi constituency BUNGOMA, KENYA: A Bungoma businessman has been implicated in the National Youth Service (NYS) saga. According to the documents from the Public Accounts Committee (PAC), Wycliffe Wafula Wangamati&#39;s company, Bonito Properties Limited, benefitted from one of the NYS contracts, where it was paid Sh21.8 million. According to PAC, Bonito was paid through the Kenya Commercial Bank, Milimani Branch, through account number a sum of Sh217,778,629 allegedly for refurbishing the NYS barracks at Gilgil. This contradicts Mr Wangamati&#39;s media statement early this week where he stated that the firm had been engaged to put up new units. READ MORE Governor: CBK had no role in NYS scandal Harakhe charged with abuse of office in NYS scam Revealed: How banks moved Sh6.3b NYS cash In the Monday statement to the press, Mr Wangamati, who is one of the directors of the company, said Bonito Properties &quot;was contracted to do construction of six barracks by NYS using the modern EPS mode of construction.&quot; He added that his company conducted &quot;genuine&quot;business with NYS, and they are yet to receive the entire payment of the project. Mr Wangamati further denied claims that the payments he has so far received were irregular and noted that he has completed works. On Friday last week, Bonito Properties Limited was adversely mentioned as one of the faceless companies that received payments in the ongoing NYS graft investigations. It was reported that Sh1.64 billion worth of contracts was paid to 40 companies whose directors were unknown, among them Bonito properties. However, according to the company&#39;s file at the Registrar of Companies, the firm&#39;s directors besides Mr Wangamati are Caroline Namalwa Wesonga, Brian David Okumu and Kennedy Musebe. Contacted for comment, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) communications department said that they were yet to assess the documents. &quot;We will do so in due course. Those implicated will no doubt face the full force of the law. We are also in communication with the Independent Electoral Board Commission of a possibility of blacklisting those implicated in corruption in the country,&quot; a statement from EACC said. While addressing a rally in Kimilili on Wednesday, Bungoma Governor Ken Lusaka said &quot;everyone should carry their cross, and if found guilty, taxpayers&rsquo; money should be refunded.&quot;