The announcement by the Nairobi County leadership of its intention to rid the Central Business District of hawkers will be greeted with cautious optimism in many quarters. The skepticism will be because such populist statements have been made in the past but such pledges have been reneged when it becomes expedient. And because there are elections round the corner, city residents may look at the statement by Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero with a jaundiced eye. The governor said that the county would not be influenced by the fact that hawkers form a sizeable voting bloc. On previous occasions, hawkers have been allowed to display their wares in the CBD without reprisals with members of the incumbent regime keen to make political capital out of this group of potential voters That Nairobi, the administrative capital of Kenya and its commercial hub, has been allowed to degenerate to this level, is indeed unfortunate. Hawkers occupy most pavements in the city centre posing a great to danger pedestrians who have to walk on busy roads to get to their destinations because the walk ways are inaccessible. The county leadership must take responsibility for this state of affairs and ensure pedestrian walk ways are cleared of wares displayed by hawkers. It is unfair that owners of retail outlets, who pay rates to the county council, have had to contend with having entrances to their stores blocked by hawkers. These hawkers are not just a nuisance to pedestrians; criminals often mingle with them and pinch wallets from unsuspecting individuals walking in the CBD. The Nairobi County Government recently demonstrated that it could manage the unhealthy influx of hawkers when it evicted hundreds of violent street vendors who were demonstrating when a new shopping mall was opened in Nairobi&rsquo;s teeming Eastleigh area. City authorities can do the same in downtown Nairobi. Residents of the capital city are happy about their renewed commitment to rid the city of hawkers and bring sanity to the capital. This commitment by city authorities will, however, serve as a double-edged sword. Residents who make larger voting bloc than hawkers could punish incumbent officials at the ballot if they fail to make living in the city more manageable. The onus is on the Governor to ensure city streets are kept secure. As part of the Nairobi County&rsquo;s long term plan, however, more new stalls for hawkers should be constructed in different parts of the city so that traders have a clean and safe environment to display their wares. READ MORE We will not spare you, Nairobi County warns hawkers City county deserves more, Mr Governor Court bars boda bodas from Nairobi CBD