On Sunday October 2, Isabella Matabiri went missing, leaving her family in pain and anguish. Matabiri&rsquo;s parents had left her at home as they left for church. On returning, they did not find her at home.Their search has so far not borne any fruits. They are praying that they will finally find their daughter alive.Her father, William Matabiri, said they have searched for her everywhere, including among relatives, friends, police stations and hospitals. &ldquo;We left her to wash her school uniforms as we went to church. On returning, we found the clothes still not washed and she was not around. We thought she had gone to the shop to buy soap but to date she has not returned,&rdquo; said Matabiri.He said his daughter, who was a Form Two student at St Raphael Burangasi Secondary School, once left home in July 2016, but was found within a week at her uncle&rsquo;s place.&ldquo;This time around, she has not reached her relatives and we do not know where she has disappeared to,&rdquo; he said, describing her as a hardworking student.&ldquo;We have searched among our relatives from both sides, visited her friends, reported the matter to the police and also visited hospitals but we have not found her,&rdquo; he said.However, Matabiri said a relative informed them that their daughter is Uganda without divulging further information.&ldquo;She called one of the relatives using an unknown number and said we should not be worried as she is alive but is in Uganda,&rdquo; he said.Her mother, Judith Matabiri, now lives in agony as she worries about where her daughter is.&ldquo;I pray that I find my daughter alive. Let her come back home to continue with her studies. She was a sharp girl and she should first complete her studies,&rdquo; said Judith.She added: &ldquo;Life has been hard since my daughter left home without notifying anybody. It is hard for me and her siblings. Please whoever has seen her should tell her we need her home.&rdquo;Her brother, Felix Matabiri, finds himself in a difficult situation, missing his younger sister whom they have been sharing a lot in terms of studies and social life.He hopes that one day he will reunite with his sister to pick up life from where they left abruptly without notifying each other.&ldquo;I feel that one day she will come back. I miss her as we are used to each another and we have been sharing a lot but I wonder why she did not inform me where she was going,&rdquo; said Felix.He is appealing to anyone who sees her sister to tell her to come back home.&ldquo;Whoever sees her, please tell her to come back to continue with her studies. We really miss her as a family,&rdquo; he said.