A gang that drilled into a wall at the Equity Bank in Kayole in a bank robbery escaped with Sh26 million, police probe shows. The money had been kept there after the weekend collection. The thieves have not been arrested but police say they are following crucial leads into the incident. &quot;After reconciliation of the figures the bank says the thieves escaped with at least Sh26 million,&quot; said an officer aware of the ongoing probe who asked not to be named. The thieves behind the incident had rehearsed for long and inspected the building knowing where to drill and access the hall, another official said. The official said they are following crucial leads into the incident and hope to get the real thieves. Three people including guards who were on duty have been arrested over the stealing of the money last Saturday night. Police said they also recovered&nbsp;mallets, grinder, chisels and a gas cylinder that the unknown number of thieves used to access the control room and safes of the bank to escape with the cash. READ MORE Two Nairobi students sit for KCSE in police cells after arrest over robbery with violence Equity Bank's appeal on award given to client gets nod Thugs drill hole through Equity Bank wall, steal cash Detectives investigating the incident say those in custody will help them in the probe and it is not clear they participated in the break in. The officers believe the thieves spent at least five hours to drill through the bank rear wall, disable the CCTV therein and deactivate the alarm, break into the control room and later burn two safes and escape with the cash that was in there. The investigators have confirmed there was no power outage in the area to enable the movement into the bank hall undetected. The suspects committed the crime on Saturday night and the incident was detected almost six hours after it had happened. Among those in custody and helping with the probe were the guards who were on duty at the building housing the bank and that of neighbouring it. The official guard on duty was manning the front side of the bank and did not know what was happening on the rear side, he told police. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;