&nbsp; The Gusii Elders Council has called for a consultative meeting to discuss development in the region and help tone down the raising political temperatures in the area. The meeting comes at a time when there is heated political debate in the region which is also fresh from a County Assembly by-election for Nyacheki Ward. According to the Elders Council Chairman Araka Matundura, all Gusii leaders have been invited for the meeting which will be held at Kisii National Polytechnic Friday.&nbsp; &ldquo;We have invited both the elected and aspiring political leaders. Business people from the community will also attend the meeting to discuss development issues affecting the region,&rdquo; said Matundura.&nbsp; The two counties, Nyamira and Kisii, share a number of development projects particularly Tea Processing factories.&nbsp; READ MORE Naftal Onkoba of ODM clinches Nyacheki Ward seat Nyacheki by-election marred with chaos, voter bribery Small parties fight ODM, Jubilee Party in Nyacheki ward by-election Critics will be keen to observe how the elders will play around with the smearing political differences between Kisii Governor James Ongwae and his Deputy Governor Joash Maangi who will be facing the Political Parties Tribunal after ODM expelled the latter from the party a few days ago. Governor Ongwae is yet to comment on the matter even as Maangi maintained that there is no bad blood between him and his boss. &ldquo;We work so closely with the Governor and all that is happening is due to some political goings-on in the region. This is a political period and we expect some political intrigues,&rdquo; said Maangi. Unlike the powerful clan in Mandera which has applied a new model of &lsquo;negotiated democracy, the Gusii Elders Council is yet to make any major political move. The Gusii Council of Elders has a fully furnished office in Kisii town and has in the past received great support from the Kisii County government including monetary help. Most of the senior members of the council are retired civil servants including the Chairman who is a retired senior chief in the former Provincial Administration. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;