With less than a year to the polls, the Kirinyaga governor&rsquo;s seat is already shaping up to be one of the most hotly contested. A number of candidates have declared their interest in the seat, including former Devolution Cabinet Secretary Anne Waiguru, incumbent Joseph Ndathi and most recently Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua. The entry of Ms Karua, a seasoned politician who has served as Gichugu MP for 20 years, will draw the most interest. Karua made a turnaround from her earlier indication that she would run for the presidency when on Thursday she declared her interest to unseat Governor Ndathi. But the Narc-K leader is likely to face a tough test in winning the hearts of voters in the region. Karua, who contested the 2013 presidential election on her party ticket and emerged sixth, has been a vocal critic of President Uhuru Kenyatta whose Jubilee Party is immensely popular in Mt Kenya region. READ MORE DP Ruto and Waiguru clash over NYS scandal DP Ruto aide linked to NYS cartel Waiguru illegally asked for Sh3.5b additional funding, Mangiti says Presidential candidate In running for governor, Karua might find herself in a precarious position, with her success pegged on her choice of presidential candidate in the 2017 General Election. During the 2013 elections, Kenyatta garnered 57,104 votes of the total 60,345 votes cast in Karua&rsquo;s Gichugu constituency. The National Alliance (TNA) swept across Mt Kenya region in the past elections as its candidates carried the day against stronger candidates who ran on less popular parties. Political commentators say through the formation of Jubilee Party, which came after dissolution of 12 other parties, the ruling coalition has effectively locked out candidates who will not get the nomination ticket. Karua&rsquo;s good standing with the Opposition may conspire against her desire to lead a county in a Jubilee stronghold. Her decision to scale down her ambition to occupy State House comes hot on the heels of Peter Kenneth, who also opted out of the race to vie for governor. Kenneth said he would support President Kenyatta for re-election. Anthony Ndegwa, a local political commentator, believes that the key for Karua would be to reverse the trend and win the votes regardless of her Narc Kenya party and the candidate she will support for president. He says the County Assembly is also likely to pose a challenge to her if she becomes governor. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;