Luo elders will today crown CORD leader Raila Odinga a warrior and give him their blessings ahead of the 2017 presidential elections. The rare ceremony, whose details have been kept top secret, will be held at a special shrine at the historic Got Ramogi Hills where Luos first pitched camp during their migration from Sudan hundreds of years ago. According to the elders, this is a unique and significant ceremony that will not only honour Raila as a leader but also give him blessings in his political battles. The Chairman of the Luo Council of Elders (Ker), Mzee Willys Otondi (pictured), confirmed the event but declined to divulge details. &ldquo;Yes, we are going to do some things to our leader Raila,&rdquo; he said on phone. Raila&rsquo;s spokesman Dennis Onyango yesterday said the former PM will attend the ceremony planned to coincide with the Got Ramogi Cultural Festival. The venue of the planned crowning was a beehive of activity yesterday as elders dressed in traditional regalia prepared for the ceremony. Asked why they were crowning Raila a warrior yet he was already one, Luo Council of Elders&rsquo; Bondo Branch Chairman Mzee Odida Bwoga said: &ldquo;Yes, he has fought many battles. But this election is a special one whose outcome could affect his future. This is why we are preparing him.&rdquo; He added: &ldquo;The ceremony is very important to the Luo community because we are sending our son to war and we must give him the blessings and the necessary paraphernalia of war.&rdquo; READ MORE DP Ruto tells Raila to fight graft in CORD counties first Panel calls off interviews to pick new IEBC boss Don't blame me for your failures, Raila tells Uhuru During the ceremony, a tong (pear) and okumba (shield) will be handed to the CORD principal. He will also be required to take an oath and other traditional rituals to be decided by the elders. &ldquo;The installation will only be done by an elder who has convinced us that he is a real descendant of Ramogi (the community&rsquo;s great ancestor),&rdquo; said Mzee Bwoga. Mzee Bwoga, however, said the installation of a warrior comes with conditions that must be adhered to. For example, the warrior is not allowed to spend the night before installation with a woman. Instead, he will spend it in a special place where a traditional beer would be prepared and served, as elders sing him war songs. The Standard On Saturday was unable to establish if Raila will follow these rules.