Senior&nbsp;Ministry&nbsp;of Education&nbsp;officials&nbsp;have been engaged in exam supervision in a move to guard this year&#39;s Kenya Certificate of Primary Education finals. The&nbsp;officials&nbsp;were yesterday assigned another set of regions to supervise as the tests entered day two. Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang&#39;i, who was in Western region on Monday, was yesterday in Nairobi. He toured various examination collection and distribution points. He also visited Nairobi Primary School, which has 60 candidates, to observe the reception and opening of the examination packets. Yesterday, the candidates sat for Science, Kiswahili Lugha and Kiswahili Insha papers. Today, they are sitting for the last papers - Social Studies and Religious Education. The CS later toured Westlands, Starehe and Kamukunji sub-county headquarters where he expressed satisfaction with the exam administration processes. READ MORE KCPE students receive cards and food from politicians KNEC agent charged in court for leaking KCPE exam Girl faints as she awaits second KCPE paper Kenya National Examinations Council (KNEC) chairman George Magoha, who inspected operations in Nairobi on day one, moved to Coast region. Teachers Service Commission (TSC) Chief Executive Officer Nancy Macharia, who was in Eldoret on Tuesday, moved to Nairobi yesterday. Education PS Belio Kipsang was in Kilifi on Monday and moved to Kajiado and neighbouring regions. Knec&#39;s acting boss Mercy Karogo was also in Kajiado yesterday. Ministry&nbsp;of Education Quality Assurance Director Pius Mutisya was in Nyamira as Darius Ogutu, the director of policy, was in Baringo. The council also released a hotline number &ndash; 0800724900 &ndash; to be used by citizens who wish to give feedback on the ongoing KCPE administration. &quot;We encourage the public to send in any feedback concerning the conduct of the examinations,&quot; read a tweet by Knec. A statement from the&nbsp;ministry&nbsp;said the visits by the senior&nbsp;officials&nbsp;were aimed at assessing the efficiency and effectiveness of the measures put in place to safeguard the integrity and credibility of the examinations. The visits included spot checks at various examination collection/distribution centres. &quot;The objective is to understand the efficacy of the new measures,&quot; read the statement.