The General Service Unit (GSU) officers have been pulled out of the operation to recover guns and ammunition stole from a police post in Mumias. Head of the operation Tito Kilonzi yesterday said the GSU had been dropped from the exercise. &ldquo;We have decided to drop the reinforcement that we had brought from across Kakamega County to help us recover the guns after they did their bit as planned,&rdquo; he said. The move to withdraw GSU officers follows a public outcry after the officers were accused of using excessive force in the operation. Meanwhile, the man who suffered burns when the officers allegedly burnt down his house, has succumbed to his injuries. Michael Mugo the administrator at St Mary&rsquo;s hospital Mumias confirmed the death. &ldquo;It is unfortunate. We tried our best but he succumbed to the more than 80 per cent burns,&rdquo; Mr Mugo said yesterday. READ MORE Man and wife charged with abduction of three children At least 40 dead in China construction accident Twelve bodies found in southwestern Mexico CORD leader Raila Odinga visited the family of the deceased and donated Sh70,000 towards meeting funeral expenses. The operation in Mumias West, Mumias East and Matungu constituencies is meant to recover seven German-made G3 assault rifles and 140 rounds of ammunition. Kilonzi acknowledged that there had been reports about police brutality but there are no official complains. &ldquo;That houses were torched, property snatched and women raped by police could be allegations. I encourage aggrieved citizens to approach us (police) and we assure that any officer in the operation found in breach of code would be dealt with,&rdquo; he said. Hundreds of business premises in the operation zone remained closed for fear of losses. Those who suffered severe injuries were referred to Kakamega County Referral hospital. Mumias West MP John Naicca ferried six of his constituents to Kakamega for specialised treatment and vowed to sue the State. &ldquo;Our people must be compensated for the loss and torture they suffered. It is shameful that President Uhuru was in western yesterday (Thursday) but uttered nothing concerning this torture,&rdquo; he said. Kakamega Human Rights Network said officers behind the &ldquo;messy operation must be held accountable&rdquo;.