Taxpayers could fork out as much as Sh4.4 billion for each political party&rsquo;s primaries conducted by the electoral agency. Conducting competitive primaries in a ward for an MCA, MP, woman representative and governor is estimated to cost Sh3,000,000, according to ODM Director of Finance Joshua Kawino. This brings the total cost of conducting nominations in the 1,450 wards across the country to Sh4.35 billion. However, the actual cost for one party could be lower because a party is unlikely to hold competitive nominations in all the 1,450 wards, as in some areas contests are unlikely with candidates being handed direct tickets or failing to attract aspirants at all if the party is not popular in the region. FOOT BILL President Uhuru Kenyatta and deputy William Ruto&rsquo;s Jubilee Party has said taxpayers would foot the bill for their primaries and are already engaging the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) ahead of the primaries to be conducted early next year. READ MORE Politicians rush to pay party membership fees as they seek re-election CORD: Retired IEBC Commissioners frustrating new electoral laws Tribal alliances will not win you votes, Kidero tells Jubilee And assuming all major political parties &ndash; ODM, Jubilee Party, Wiper and Amani National Congress&ndash; are to field candidates across the country and want IEBC to carry out the exercise, taxpayers would have cough up as high as Sh20 billion for the exercise. This would be in addition to billions IEBC will spend in managing the August 8, 2017 General Election. This has sparked an uproar, with those opposed to the idea saying it would be akin to holding two general elections at the expense of the already burdened taxpayer. Mr Kawino listed election personnel, materials, security, transport, logistics, and communication as very key components in tabulating election cost. IEBC&rsquo;s Chief Executive Officer Ezra Chiloba did not give an estimate but said, &ldquo;The cost is dependent on the number of voters within that ward. Now, we don&rsquo;t know how many members belong to which party in an electoral area.&rdquo; Allies of Opposition leader Raila Odinga, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi have already termed the idea as a scheme to rip the country of its public resources. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;