Deputy President William Ruto yesterday&nbsp;said the Jubilee Party will wrestle&nbsp;Coast region from the alleged dominance&nbsp;of the Coalition for Reforms and&nbsp;Democracy (CORD) in the 2017 General&nbsp;Election. Deputy President William Ruto has said Jubilee Party will beat the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (CORD) in Coast region in next year&rsquo;s General Election. Ruto, who addressed several rallies in Kwale County, will today launch the Jubilee presidential campaign team for the region at Tononoka Grounds in Mombasa. Yesterday, he told supporters in Kwale that the notion that Coast is an Opposition stronghold is a fallacy that will be debunked in next year&rsquo;s polls. The DP has been at the Coast since Thursday and has toured Kilifi, Taita Taveta and Kwale counties.&nbsp;Yesterday, he toured Kinango in Kwale and later held a rally in Kwale town before visiting Ukunda. &ldquo;The Opposition has no plan for this country. They can only generate propaganda and hold demonstrations that do not serve the people of Kenya, including Coast. Kenyans will have an easy choice,&rdquo; he said. READ MORE IEBC best suited to manage party nominations We shouldn&rsquo;t politicise hiring of IEBC chiefs Kenya government should fund party nominations Disrupt order He said Opposition leaders failed to deliver development in the many years they served in the government and are currently out to disrupt social order through demonstrations, adding that the Jubilee Government has an impressive development record. Ruto urged the residents to reject Opposition and support Jubilee Party, just like their Governor Salim Mvurya, who led ODM leaders to defect to the ruling party. Ruto said Jubilee Party will support Mvurya and dismissed CORD&rsquo;s assertion that the governor will not be re-elected following his defection. Ruto&rsquo;s latest tour of the Coast demonstrates the region&rsquo;s importance in Jubilee&rsquo;s re-election strategy after losing the area to CORD in the 2013 polls. Despite losing the March by-election in Malindi Constituency, Jubilee and especially Ruto has not stopped trying to woo local politicians and JP feels emboldened by Mvurya&rsquo;s recent defection to its fold. Although key Jubilee politicians who lost the 2013 polls have since faded into oblivion, Jubilee has benefited from the defection of key ODM and CORD politicians such as MPs Gideon Mung&rsquo;aro (Kilifi North),&nbsp;Mustafa Idd (Kilifi South) and Peter Shehe (Ganze). Some of them have been appointed to lead Jubilee&rsquo;s presidential campaign at the Coast, led by Mung&rsquo;aro and businessman Suleiman Shahbal. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;