Mr.Dave Okelo(R) MBITA, KENYA: Mbita parliamentary politics has drawn Mr.Dave Okelo, a youthful man with great enthusiasm, dynamism and charisma. He has thrown his bait in Mbita parliamentary to contest 2017 long-time Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) loyal and current MP Milly Odhiambo. Mr Okelo has been on the ground hammering every corner of the constituency which comprises many islands like Mfangano, Remba, Takawiri, Kibuogi and Rusinga among others. He is popularly known to his peer group and political network as &lsquo;Dave Okelo&rsquo; the real-deal. He will be facing other competitors in the constituency who are also eyeing the MP seat. Said Mr Okelo, &ldquo;I am ready to battle out and edge competitors owing to Mbita nativity and a residential combination.&rdquo; He affirmed that his candidacy offers the best bet to unseat and send home the incumbent Hon. Millie Odhiambo Mabona. READ MORE Joho tells Kalonzo and Wetang&rsquo;ula to declare Raila CORD flagbearer Opposition MPs want office of DP Ruto investigated over NYS scam Mwaura challenges ODM to punish him for joining Jubilee Party The duo will be fighting to split the vote rich Rusinga Island because they all have ancestral background in the island. Dave Okelo originally hails from Kamasengre subclan in Rusinga West while Millie is a daughter of Waware subclan in Rusinga East. As the battle line gets thinner and thicker, voters are left wondering who will carry the day and if indeed the incumbent will be able to defend her seat successfully without the party support she has enjoyed in the last election of 2013. Politics being a game of numbers but a reserve of the few-mighty may turn out to be the unexpected. Along with Dave Okelo are other fresh politicial aspirants Mr. Ayodo Nyabwana, Mrs. Kamaria and Mr.James Akali. Dave Okelo is a native of Mbita constituency born in Kamasengre subclan within Western Rusinga but lives in Kasgunga sub location within the greater Gembe location. He studied at Mbita high school and later went for higher studies in Finland from where he currently holds a degree and masters certificate in Information Sciences. Prior to joining politics, he was the Executive Officer of Kenfins Organization, a lobby group for Kenyans living in Finland. He is a former employee of Kenya Airways. On development in Mbita constituency, he has been actively involved in philanthropic causes and disability empowerment programs. He is well versed with the needs of Mbita electorate having maintained a network of various empowering and hopeful activities. He is the servant of hope for the better change for the people of Mbita in this highly placed competitive politics.