If Kenyans living in the US had it their way, Hillary Clinton would have won the US presidential election. Like their counterparts back home, they overwhelmingly supported Clinton against her rival, Donald Trump, but for varied reasons. Although some expressed reservations about whether her administration would have been pro-Africa, they argued she was a better candidate than Trump. A number admitted that the election did not inspire much confidence compared to the previous two elections that saw President Barack Obama become president. &quot;This election cycle has been dispiriting and unprecedented, for Americans or from the perspective of a Kenyan. The politics was off the book,&quot; said Mukurima Muriuki, a conflict resolution strategist in Los Angeles, California. Mr Muriuki also took issue with the level of political discourse among the candidates. READ MORE News media yet again caught flat-footed as they misread America's complex political pulse Melania Trump: Country girl catwalks to the White House Panic as 30,000 Kenyans face deportation under Trump regime &quot;As a Kenyan, I have seen politicians in my country go after each other during campaigns and make the elections about personalities. But experiencing the same thing in the US is just extraordinary,&quot; he said. Although Sylvia Ndunge from Maryland has little or no interest in US politics, she voted for Clinton. &quot;Given that we didn&#39;t have any good choice between the two main presidential candidates, I chose the best between Clinton and Trump. I am a Democrat but if the Republican side offered a better alternative, I would have voted for that person,&quot; she said. Ms Ndunge explained that when it came to stock-taking, Clinton&#39;s evils overrode Trump&#39;s. Dan Okoth, another resident of Maryland, said he supported Clinton because he believed she would have delivered as the first woman president. &quot;I have two little girls and believe a Trump presidency has no future for them. I voted for Hillary because of her leadership skills in government,, which have been tested,&quot; he said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;