Moi University is set to close two of its campuses in order to consolidate its resources and operate efficiently. The university will close Kericho and Nakuru campuses by next academic year, Deputy Vice Chancellor (DVC) in charge of Academics, Research and Extension, Prof. Isaac Kimengi has said.Prof Kimengi who was addressing students at Eldoret West Campus on Monday said that the two campuses will be closed to enable the university to continue providing quality education to all students by converging services at other campuses. Kimengi however assured students in the two affected campuses that they will not be disadvantaged by the closure since they will be transferred to other campuses to continue with their studies.&quot;None of the students in Nakuru and Kericho campuses will be negatively affected. They will join other campuses of Moi University,&quot; said Kimengi.The DVC said that the institution was enhancing the provision of quality education by hiring additional qualified teaching personnel to serve in its satellite campuses across the country.&quot;The university will hire more lecturers that will be deployed to various campuses so that they can offer quality teaching to students,&quot; said Kimengi.Meanwhile, Acting Vice Chancellor (VC) Prof Laban Ayiro has indicated that he will spearhead drastic changes in the institution including addressing cases of missing marks that had been raised by students.&quot;I am passionate about making a difference at the institution. We have plans to automate entry of examination results so that students can access through a digital platform,&quot; Prof Ayiro told the students. The VC who had earlier received opposition from a section of political leaders from North Rift led by Uasin Gishu governor Jackson Mandago and his Elgeyo Marakwet Alex Tolgos said he was in good terms with the leaders.&quot;The other day I met Mandago and he assured me of his support. That is the way to go,&quot; said Prof. Ayiro. Mandago and Tolgos had led other leaders in a protest to Moi University demanding an explanation of how Prof Ayiro had been appointed.