While many regions in the country suffer food insecurity attributed to erratic weather patterns, farmers in Nakuru are struggling to find market for their produce. This year, farmers had a bumper harvest of various crops, including peas, potatoes, vegetables, wheat and beans. Some of the produce is currently rotting in farms as they have not been harvested because of lack of market. Smart Harvest team visited several farmers in the county and established increased number of brokers buying the produce at throw-away prices. Despite market challenges, poor roads have also affected farmers making it difficult for them to transport their produce. David Juma from Sirikwa village in Kuresoi North is among farmers struggling to find market for their produce. Juma, 40, says he has had to find market for his shangi potato variety in Tanzania. He says there is ready and better prices in Tanzania, as a 110kg bag goes for Sh2,300, while in Kenya, a 170kg bag is sold at Sh2,500. READ MORE Factory staff protests against harassment MCAs&rsquo; report says most ECDE projects poorly done Agony of disabled 4 turned away by State facilities in Nakuru County &ldquo;Why should people die in various parts of the country when we have a lot of produce in this region? I am forced to find market in Tanzania because I have no alternative,&rdquo; he says. Juma, who planted potatoes on a 17-acre farm, says the cost of production is also higher in Kenya, including farm inputs such as fertilisers and chemicals. He regrets that the government has not put in place measures to boost potato production like other ventures such as dairy farming where farmers sell milk to the Kenya Cooperative Creameries (KCC). &ldquo;The burden of market search lies with farmers struggling with brokers offering low prices,&rdquo; Juma tells Smart Harvest. Adjacent to the potato farm is 15 acres of wheat crop due for harvesting, but the farmer is anticipating losses because of lack of ready market. Brokers GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;