NAIROBI, KENYA: Laikipia North MP Mathew Lempurkel spent a second night in police cells over another claim of incitement to violence. After he was charged with assault and released on Wednesday, he was arrested minutes later as he was walking out of the cells and driven to Nanyuki where he is expected to face charges. Police say he had a pending incitement to violence case that he will face Wednesday morning in Nanyuki. His lawyer, Mr Saitabao Kanchori, said the MP was taken to Directorate of Criminal Investigations headquarters to record further statements over reasons that had not been disclosed. Mr Kanchori was among dozens of supporters from Mr Lempurkel&rsquo;s Laikipia North Constituency, who camped outside Parliament Police Station, where the lawmaker was seized on Tuesday. After he recorded the statement at DCI headquarters, he was driven to Nanyuki by police and locked up in cells ahead of the arraignment Thursday. READ MORE MP Lempurkel arrested for threatening nominated colleague Korere Lempulrkel was arrested on Tuesday, a day after he fought with nominated MP Sarah Korere at Harambee House. He was charged in court and released on cash bail. Although both have complained of being assaulted by the other and sought police action, police chose to arrest the MP and left his female counterpart. Some of his colleagues have accused a senior government official of ordering police not to take action on Korere. The MPs say police are getting directions from politicians on investigations. The two legislators were Monday thrown out of the Office of the President, Harambee House after they fought in the full glare of their constituents and aides. The two were part of a delegation waiting to see interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery when the drama ensued. Witnesses said the confrontation turned violent when Mr. Lempulrkel walked into the board room and found Ms Korere with a delegation of over 30 people waiting to see the CS. There are conflicting reports on what triggered the physical exchanges, but Ms Korere claimed her colleague was unhappy after finding her in the office with the delegation, which included members of the county assembly.