&ldquo;His experience, temperament and character make him (Donald Trump) horribly unsuited to being the head of state,&rdquo; declared The Economist, a respected news magazine, in its current issue. Yet as the votes streamed in showing that the Republican candidate was on course to be the 45th president of the United States ahead of Democrat Hillary Clinton, it was evident the voters had defied popular expectations and that a political tsunami had swept through America. His candidacy, as The Economist put it, was &ldquo;a symptom of the popular desire for a political revival&rdquo;. For a man whose opponent was resoundingly endorsed around the world, the win signifies a triumph against Establishment in many ways. Mrs Clinton is the wife of a former President. She is also a former New York Senator and a former Secretary of State. The win also offers sobering lessons not only to the political establishment in America, but also in Africa and particularly, Kenya. Most of the rhetoric preached by Mr Trump resonates well with most of the citizenry who feel let down by a greedy and selfish political class. The ruling class had better watch out. Most importantly to them, the Trump movement has toppled long-held views about power relations and the traditional ruling class depicted as greedy and out of touch. His promise to set loose a &ldquo;wrecking ball&rdquo; to demolish Washington politics that have served the elites and interest groups echoes the wishes of many across the world who feel that they have been unfairly treated by those in power. And so any vote cast in favour of Mr Trump was a protest against the ruling class, which continues to offer only hope to a public weary of status quo. The people for sure want change and not only in America. Looked at differently, the win also represents what is great about America, a land full of surprises, a land of opportunities and a land of the possible. Mr Trump&rsquo;s win was near impossible when he announced his candidature 17 months ago. Only in America would a man like Mr Trump surmount all the obstacles laid in his path to pull off such a feat. READ MORE Kenya shilling holds firm as analysts predict stability Malik Obama mocks relatives as he celebrates Trump win Panic as 30,000 Kenyans face deportation under Trump regime Yet the path to his victory was not entirely glorious and, some would say, even presidential. Honestly speaking, Mr Trump won by invoking the fear factor; the fear of Islam and those who practice it; the fear of immigrants and the loathing of minorities. The divisions he sowed will linger on for a long time. Yet everything really depends on what he does the morning after the night before. If the tumbling of world markets and currency fluctuations is anything to go by, then there is reason to fear. Mr Trump will have to start at home by healing the deep rifts a hate-filled campaign for the White House has caused. He will have to reach out across the globe and seek to confront the issues that confront the world by rallying the nations of the world. Because though the world must accept and move on, there are genuine concerns that a Trump presidency is bad for world peace and trade and commerce; that it could promote xenophobia and protectionism that is inimical to globalisation; that it will promote intolerance. Hopefully, once the rigours of the office kick in, Mr Trump will discard some of the strident messages he peddled during the campaign and realise that the real world is a different kettle of fish and work to promote world peace and corporation.