Politicians seeking re-election and those seeking to unseat them in the August 8 elections are rushing to update their party membership subscription fees. Parties that are owed millions of shillings threaten to lock defaulters out of nominations. The pay-up warning came as details of returns filed by parties with the Registrar of Parties revealed the millions of shillings each of the mainstream parties receive from taxpayers, how they spend the cash and their wealth profile in terms of assets. ODM&#39;s defaulters in particular have to raise close to Sh50 million in two weeks to beat the November 30 deadline to submit their applications. Yesterday, ODM chairman John Mbadi (Suba MP) revealed that some MPs owed the party Sh15 million and MCAs over Sh30 million. He warned that if they failed to pay the arrears, they would be barred from participating in the party&#39;s primaries that begin in February next year. &quot;These payments are clearly stipulated in the Political Parties Act and failure to pay up amounts to disciplinary action by the Political Parties Tribunal Board. We cannot accept people to use our name and popularity to win seats and once they rise to the pinnacle of power, they switch allegiance to other parties and abandon our train. They must pay,&quot; Mr Mbadi said. READ MORE CORD: Retired IEBC Commissioners frustrating new electoral laws Jubilee Party's campaign team holds meeting to discuss nominations Political parties in Kenya to raise millions from aspirants &quot;We are waiting to catch them at the nominations when they will be rushing for party clearance. If you owe the party, you won&#39;t be cleared to contest on its ticket,&quot; he added. ODM party leader Raila Odinga had told defaulters to pay up or face severe penalties. The party&#39;s National Elections Board invited aspirants to submit their applications this month but warned those with arrears to clear them first. ODM&#39;s financial returns in June indicated the party was owed Sh138.6 million by members. This means that in four months about Sh90 million has since been paid. Part of the payments could also have come from so-called &#39;rebel&#39; leaders who rushed to update their accounts with the party to pre-empt action by the disciplinary committee following charges of association with Jubilee. Ten rebel governors and MPs have since been expelled. Interestingly, the Members of the National Assembly and Senators in arrears include some of Raila&#39;s close allies. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;