By the time you read this, Hillary Rodham Clinton might well have become the first female president of the United States. Symbolically, it should be the ultimate trophy for women in the political arena. If this happens, I should prostrate before my daughter, beg for mercy and apologise on behalf of all men for having treated womenfolk as inferior for centuries. Gentlemen, with President Clinton, women will have taken over the world. And if she loses to you know who, I should still throw myself flat and plead for pardon. Seriously, either way, the good lady will be the first woman to come this far towards the most powerful political seat in the globe. Only two other US women ever seriously contended for presidency using a major party: Geraldine Ferraro for the Democratic Party, 1984, and Republican Sarah Palin in 2008. But even these were gunning for number two. Some 136 years before, Victoria Woodhull had tried using a minor party at a time when women were not allowed to vote. She could not even vote for herself. READ MORE Women aspirants tell ODM to slash fees New Bill seeks to improve response to disasters in Kenya In tendering, women are not equal In a male-dominated world order, you have to count the number two and three women. It is an indictment of democracy and &#39;civilisation&#39;. Even in the greatest country, serious women could only play second fiddle. It has always struck me as curious that with all her economic glory, democratic culture, equality and freedom, the US has never elected a woman as president. Yet most major democracies in the world have already produced female presidents or have regular serious contenders. The story of India and Indira Gandhi is well known. Britain had the &#39;Iron Lady&#39; Margaret Thatcher. Germany is currently being ruled by that tough lady, Angela Merkel. Brazil elected one Dilma Rousseff in 2011 and sacked her this year! Even developing democracies are demonstrating that women no longer &#39;belong to the kitchen and bedroom&#39;, as a Nigerian male chauvinist-in-chief, Muhammadu Buhari has so poignantly reminded us. There is Liberia&#39;s Ellen Johnson and Malawi&#39;s Joyce Banda. Even the chaotic Central Africa Republic had to look to Catherine Samba-Panza to head the interim government during the latest cycle of crisis there. The perception that women cannot lead is a cultural construct. Culture is stronger than fact. Culturally, man is immediately after birth expected to be a self-sufficient, almost pre-set human being. Most cultures set men to prove themselves that they can protect women and children. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;