Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi claims the Jubilee government is plotting to postpone the General Election. Mudavadi warned that any attempt to push the election from August 8, 2017 will be resisted, even as Meru Senator Kiraitu Murungi, who co-chaired the the joint select committee on electoral reforms, said the date cannot be moved. He said there is every reason to believe the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) is working under the instruction of senior government officials. Speaking yesterday at a funds drive for Lwandanyi Primary School in Sirisia, Bungoma County, Mudavadi slammed the move by the selection panel of the IEBC to revoke names of shortlisted candidates for the post of commission chairperson. He said this was a clear indication the government was not ready for free and fair elections. Hidden scheme READ MORE It&rsquo;s State&rsquo;s duty to fight graft, say CORD leaders Political scavenging? Jubilee, CORD use relief food as bait for Coast DP Ruto tells Raila to fight graft in CORD counties first &ldquo;The game of musical chairs on appointment of new commissioners is a hidden scheme to scuttle next year&rsquo;s polls. There is something fishy going on between IEBC and the government,&rdquo; said Mudavadi. But Kiraitu said Kenyans had issues with the outgoing commission and that is why they are leaving office. He said the panel must therefore only select people of integrity. &ldquo;I agree with the select committee on their decision to re-advertise if they feel the candidates are not suitable. We need a balance between meeting the timelines and ensuring we get credible people to oversee the elections,&rdquo; he said. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula wondered how the select committee shortlisted people for the post then turned around that they did not meet intergirty test. &ldquo;We see this as a way of people trying to procrastinate the process so that they resort to issues like single sourcing at the last minute,&rdquo; said Wetang&rsquo;ula. National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale said Jubilee was also concerned about the timelines. &ldquo;We would like to see the commission in place in the first or second week of January so that they can ensure successful elections,&rdquo; said Duale. He urged CORD to stop &ldquo;intimidating&rdquo; the IEBC officials. ODM Chairman John Mbadi said the Issack Hassan team needs to vacate office so that they do not continue &ldquo;messing things up&rdquo;. &ldquo;The current commissioners need not be there, the secretariat can handle the issues. Hassan-led commissioners should leave as soon as possible,&rdquo; said Mbadi. However, the law passed in Parliament is clear that the current commissioners must be in office until the new team is sworn in. Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama said Jubilee had an agenda of extending the election date, which CORD would resist with all its energy. &ldquo;We know they have a preferred IEBC chairman,&rdquo; said Muthama. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;