Donald Trump could face another major test before occupying the oval office. The President-elect might face a federal jury in California, courtesy of a lawsuit by former students of his now-defunct Trump University who claim they were defrauded in a series of real-estate seminars. A hearing in federal court in San Diego is set for Thursday, and the trial is scheduled to begin on November 28, barring any delays or if Trump decides to settle the case. While presidents enjoy immunity from lawsuits arising from their official duties, the US Supreme Court has held that this shield does not extend to acts alleged to have taken place prior to taking office. The 1997 ruling came in the sexual harassment lawsuit filed against President Bill Clinton by Paula Jones, which was settled before it went to trial. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m certain there is nothing else comparable to this,&rdquo; said Alan Dershowitz, professor emeritus at Harvard Law School. READ MORE Trump&rsquo;s victory a reversal of fortune for Obama Trump vs Obama: The stark differences and open similarities Democratic Party reckoning begins as Obama prepares to leave White House Lawyers for both Trump and the plaintiffs declined to comment on Wednesday. Dershowitz said the Supreme Court also held that a case cannot be delayed just because the defendant is president, though judges are still free to grant reasonable delays to any party. Miami trial consultant Sandy Marks, who is not involved in the case, said he thought Trump might ask the presiding judge, Gonzalo Curiel, to postpone the trial in an effort to settle the case before taking office. &ldquo;I think the judge would be foolhardy not to give him a short (delay),&rdquo; said Marks, &ldquo;which would give him a chance to resolve the case put it behind him,&rdquo; he said. DEFENCE WITNESS Trump repeatedly claimed on the campaign trail that he would win the lawsuit, and&nbsp; accused Curiel of being biased against him because of his campaign promise to build a wall along the border with Mexico. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;