Western residents felt disappointed when President Uhuru Kenyatta&#39;s Thursday visit did not turn out as they had expected. Jubilee allied MPs in the region had earlier indicated that the President would be in the region on Thursday and Friday and locals hoped he would address their development concerns. However, President Kenyatta visited only on Thursday and had a tight schedule. He presided over the first graduation ceremony of Kibabii University in Bungoma County and made a few stop-overs as he returned to Nairobi. He assured the residents he would be back on December 15 to switch on Pan Paper Mills in Webuye and address other meetings. Sugarcane farmers were among groups lined up to meet the Head of State whose two-day-tour itinerary of Western was revised at the 11th hour, leading to cancellation of numerous activities. &quot;It is unfortunate that he (Uhuru) had to cancel most of the activities when farmers were prepared to engage him over their plight,&quot; said Kenya National Federation of Sugarcane Farmers Deputy Secretary General Simon Wesechere. READ MORE Apologise now or else... Mutua tells Kalonzo Leaders hit out at Governor Wa Iria as Jamleck unveils county manifesto Stakeholders welcome new legislation governing fish sector President Kenyatta was also expected to commission several roads during his tour, hold a meeting with youth at Kakamega State Lodge where he was scheduled to spend a night and commission mega water projects in Vihiga and Mumias. Jubilee point men in the region, led by Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali, said the President had opted to return to the region later to commission projects and campaign for his re-election. &quot;The President shall have more time to look into issues of development when he tours next,&quot; said Washiali. Besides attending the graduation, the President visited Pan Paper factory to inspect rehabilitation of machines. &quot;I have toured the factory and the progress is good. We have had lengthy discussions with the company management and Bungoma leadership. I will be back mid next month to switch it on,&quot; he said. He also visited Nzoia Sugar Company. Cane farmers wanted him to particularly address three issues; the decision to abolish Sugar Development Levy, a move they say has exacerbated cane shortage; poor and delayed payments by sugar firms and what is being done to meet the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA) guidelines, following another two-year moratorium in favour of the domestic sugar industry. &quot;We know he might not have plenty of time to tour the troubled Mumias Sugar Company and interact with farmers, but we ask him to be considerate and spare just a little time to listen to the farmers,&quot; said Wesechere. Youths also felt disappointed and urged the President to meet them next time he visits. &quot;We hope he will spare time to meet us next time,&quot; said Douglas Welimo from Lugari.