Isiolo Governor Godana Doyo has urged the media to highlight development in marginalised regions instead of focusing on insecurity and politics. &quot;Even as you report politics, you should be in the front line educating Kenyans about the milestones we have achieved through devolution,&quot; Doyo said when he met senior Standard Group managers. &quot;We have interacted well with your journalists in our region and we recognise the media as a major development partner. Your company has so far done a good job in highlighting some of these issues touching our people,&quot; he told representatives of The Standard newspaper, KTN, Radio Maisha, the Online edition and the advertising department led by head of Corporate Affairs Charles Kimathi. &quot;Kenyans do not even know the geography of their own country. They think Isiolo is somewhere near Ethiopia. It&#39;s your task to inform them. Isiolo is situated in middle of Kenya and it is a three-hour drive from Nairobi,&quot; said Doyo who was accompanied by county assembly Speaker Mohammed Tubi and several MCAs. &quot;Forget the myths that Isiolo is insecure. Isiolo is safer than Nairobi, no mugging and other urban crimes. Isiolo is the pearl of Kenya which everyone should visit.&quot; Doyo said the county has the potential to massively contribute to the economy of Kenya citing some of the Vision 2030 projects started under former President Mwai Kibaki. READ MORE South African firm loses Sh2.5 billion ballot papers tender case against IEBC China state media warn Trump against renouncing free trade deals Chiefs in Eldoret urged to adopt social media forums The projects include the now completed 526 km Isiolo-Moyale road, a major abattoir and Isiolo International Airport. The airport, set to be the third largest in the country, will be opened in February next year. &nbsp;The governor said Shaba, Buffalo Springs and Bisanadi game parks offer rare attractions that give tourists an unforgettable experience. Some of them are homes to special zebras, giraffes, oryx and Somali ostrich. He said residents of Meru County will immensely benefit from the airport which he said will boost miraa exports. Mr Kimathi told the governor to take advantage of the many platforms provided by the Standard Group to benefit his county. &quot;Our stories are not just on politics, we give more focus on development that is happening in counties and we have space for you to highlight that,&quot; said Kimathi who addedthat the company will soon open an office in Isiolo. &nbsp; &nbsp;