SULTAN HAMUD: Confusion marred a Wiper rally at Sultan Hamud in Makueni County on Friday when the party leader Kalonzo Musyoka lost his cool and gave a dressing down to Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama and other party leaders whom he accused of causing divisions in his backyard. And in a fit of anger, Muthama and his followers stormed out of the rally and immediately left for Nairobi thereby missing out on two subsequent rallies planned for Emali and Mtito Andei. On Saturday the concluded a two day series of rallies along Mombasa Road aimed at drumming up support for Kalonzo&#39;s presidential bid and consolidate support in Ukambani. During the charged rally at Sultan Hamud, Muthama seemed to have courted Kalonzo&#39;s ire when he robustly attacked Makueni Governor Prof Kivutha Kibwana who was not present. In an unsavoury language, Muthama riled at Kibwana describing his Muungano party as a spoiler and a nonstarter. He urged the governor to fold the party and join Wiper or be swept away in the next elections. &quot;Tunataka kumwambia (we want to tell him) If he does not join Wiper, kitaumana moja kwa moja. (It will be tough for him). As we campaign do you want to hear about a party whose origin is not known?&quot; Muthama asked the crowd. READ MORE Muthama now cries out for his motherland in new book Wiper writes to Mutua, six MPs as ODM rebels get temporary reprieve Kalonzo Musyoka to expel Wiper rebels from party The senator said the Kamba community should identify only with Wiper and urged Kibwana and Ngilu to fold their &quot;smaller parties.&quot; Kalonzo who was seated with senators David Musila (Kitui), Mutula Kilonzo Jnr (Makueni) and MPs Daniel Maanzo (Makueni) and Rose Museo (Woman Rep) and who has been courting Kibwana seemed visibly unsettled by the utterances and wasted no time in blasting Muthama. When he stood to speak, a visibly angry Kalonzo insisted his tour was meant to unite the Kamba community adding that he will not tolerate voices meant to divide the community. &quot;I want to disagree with you Muthama. On this I totally disagree. Don&#39;t create more divisions on my trip because we have come to unite the people. It is true we all want to be in one party but you can&#39;t do it by insulting or intimidating others. Let&#39;s plead with them to see sense why they should join us,&quot; Kalonzo stated. And in what appeared to be stamping his authority, Kalonzo said he had the final word in Wiper adding that he was the only one carrying the vision of the party. He defended Kibwana against accusations that his Muungano party was working with Jubilee and revealed that he was in talks with the governor to join Wiper. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;