Detectives investigating the killing of &nbsp;the principal of a Murang&#39;a-based secondary school have now narrowed down to his last moments. The officers are&nbsp;tracing&nbsp;people who took part in the disappearance and subsequent murder of Solomon Mwangi, of Kiru Boys High School,&nbsp;whose body was found in a coffee plantation last Friday. They have taken details of the car believed to have ferried the principal. The officers want to establish if the car was used to take Mwangi from school to the coffee estate where his lifeless body was found a week after he had disappeared. The Standard has learnt Mwangi had, on Sunday November 6, visited some parcels of land in Witeithie, Thika Town, in the company of his wife, Jane Mbuthia, who is the principal at Ichachiri Secondary School in Kiambu County. Reports also indicate the deceased was later dropped off at Witeithie stage along the Thika-Nairobi highway around 3pm where he would board a matatu back to his school where preparations were underway for the start of KCSE exams. Police&nbsp;are also seeking to establish if Mwangi was at Kiria-ini market in Mathioya at 8pm as indicated by the signal of his mobile phone captured by a local&nbsp;police&nbsp;base station around the time. READ MORE Kakamega girl disappears while family is in church Three Nairobi suspects killed in war on crime Leaders opt for witchcraft to arrest killers of two watchmen in Busia His former colleagues at Kiru High School have disputed reports that Mwangi was in school before 7 pm. The journey to retrace Mwangi&#39;s final moments started with detectives visiting the school. There are reports that on the day he was last seen alive, Mwangi, in the company of his deputy and watchmen, saw his wife drive into the compound shortly after 10 pm. The investigators have also visited the couple&#39;s Gatundu home and the coffee plantation where the body was discovered. The body had signs of strangulation and was badly bruised. Murang&#39;a County Commissioner John Elungata has appealed to residents and his colleagues to give detectives any information that will help unravel Mwangi&#39;s killing.