I will continue exposing corruption without fear or favour, CORD leader Raila Odinga has said.Raila said he will not be cowed into silence, adding that his crusade against corruption cartels in the Jubilee administration will continue.He said despite criticism from political forces in Jubilee seeking to undermine his quest for accountability, he will not relent in unearthing the rot in government. He claimed Jubilee forces were banking on cheap propaganda to gain political mileage while tarnishing his name.&ldquo;I will not be cowed into relenting in condemning vices such as corruption that have besieged the country. It is my duty to raise such concerns,&rdquo; Raila said.Speaking during the funeral of former Kanu leader Sarah Jemutai Saina, the CORD leader said he was now shifting focus to politics of environmental conservation, adding that the country cannot be turned into a desert as he watches.&ldquo;The truth will set me free. I know what is happening and I will continue revealing it because Kenyans have entrusted me with that responsibility,&rdquo; he said only a day after President Uhuru Kenyatta made a scathing attack on him over his continued criticism of government over runaway corruption.Raila and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi said corruption should be rooted out because it was hurting Kenyans.&ldquo;Corruption is worrying and should be addressed immediately,&rdquo; Moi said.The former Prime Minister said he was leading other like-minded leaders interested in preservation of forests, saying there was need to prevent future environmental adversities.&ldquo;I have often said that corruption has led to projects that will ultimately destroy our future. We shall pay for neglecting environmental issues. I will not be quiet where such issues are evident,&rdquo; he said.The Hague casesRaila distanced himself from accusations that he had a hand in the processes that took Deputy President William Ruto to The Hague court saying that the DP was his political partner.&ldquo;Am I mad to set up Ruto yet he was on my side?&rdquo; Raila asked, adding that such claims had been used to deny him Rift Valley votes. &ldquo;Voting is a democratic right and people choose the candidate of their preference. But making false claims against someone is not right,&rdquo; he said.Senator Moi spoke against divisive politics, saying that a false claim that he was dividing Kalenjins was misleading. He vowed to continue condemning corruption in government.Moi said he was not opposed to Ruto&rsquo;s ambition for the presidency, adding that every leader was free to serve people in different ways.&ldquo;The year 2022 is still a long time away. Now we can serve Kenyans in different ways. Then later you can decide to support Ruto, myself or another person,&rdquo; Moi said amid cheers from mourners.He said some mischievous individuals had developed the habit of name-calling and making all manner of allegation against him.&ldquo;Even when cattle rustling occurred in Kerio Valley, some people began to mention me. I don&rsquo;t understand such politics,&rdquo; he said.Other leaders at the ceremony were govenors Cleophas Lagat (Nandi) and Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu), Nandi Senator Stephen Sang and several MPs.