CORD leader Raila Odinga has dismissed President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto as incapable of ending historical injustices as they were part of the problem. The Opposition chief said the two had failed to implement the Truth Justice and Reconciliation Commission (TJRC) report. He, at the same time, denied that he had slowed down the country&rsquo;s development when he joined President Kibaki&rsquo;s government in 2008, insisting that he had won the elections and had sacrificed his stake for the sake of the country that was on the brink of collapse following the contested poll. Opposition leader Raila Odinga has accused the Government of failing to address historical injustices. The CORD leader said the Jubilee administration has not been willing to implement the recommendations of the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission (TJRC) Report. Raila claimed both President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto were part of the historical injustices, especially land, and cannot be trusted with the implementation of the report. READ MORE President Uhuru&rsquo;s engagement with the UN vital President Uhuru starts tour of Central region as residents accuse him of neglect Kenya police housing project audit long overdue &ldquo;I have said again and again that President Kenyatta and his deputy Ruto are part of the problem and cannot be part of the solution,&rdquo; said Mr Odinga. Addressing a delegation from Narok, Kajiado and Samburu counties yesterday, Raila said the duo were not interested in finding solutions to the challenges facing the Maa community. SMEAR CAMPAIGN &ldquo;The Maa community has suffered under successive regimes. They have been driven from their swathes of land since pre-colonial period and that is why we formed TJRC so that those&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; injustices can be addressed,&rdquo; he said. The former Premier said the challenges facing the Maa community in Laikipia, Samburu, Narok and Kajiado are a replica of the issues affecting the entire country and will only be fixed when an Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) government is put in place. Yesterday, Raila defended himself against accusations made by Uhuru that he (Odinga) had embarked on a smear campaign in a bid to promote voter apathy in his support base. Raila also maintained that he won the 2007 elections and was only too generous to former President Mwai Kibaki to allow him to serve under the Grand Coalition Government after the post-election violence that left more than 1,300 people dead and thousands displaced. At the same time, Raila asked Uhuru to stop &ldquo;owning&rdquo; critical infrastructural projects like the construction of the Standard Gauge Railway and the Itare water dam. Present were governors Josephat Nanok (Turkana) and John Mruttu (Taita-Taveta), MPs John Mbadi (Suba), Thomas Mwadegu (Wundanyi), Junet Mohamed (Suna East), Simba Arati (Dagoretti North), Tom Kajwang&rsquo; (Ruaraka) and a host of aspirants.