Rescuers yesterday cut through a maze of twisted metals and shifted debris as they raced to save lives of more than 10 people still trapped in a 10-storery building that collapsed in Kisii town, killing seven. Working with every available instrument, the rescuers got indications that some of those trapped are still alive. Relatives of the dead wailed as survivors recounted their ordeal and the death toll rose to seven. Oliver Gugo, one of the survivors, said he heard a cracking sound before the building,&nbsp;whose construction he had been supervising, came tumbling down. But his 15-year-old brother, Brian Arisi &mdash; a Form One student at Nyangori&nbsp; Secondary School in Vihiga &mdash; with whom he lived on the ground floor of the building was crushed to death during the Thursday tragedy. His body was retrieved from the rubble three hours after the collapse. Gugo was recused from the same building but from a different room. READ MORE Imperial shareholders accuse CBK of misinterpreting ruling Portland Cement shareholders face more dividend drought as profits dip Kenya: MPs differ over Afya House mobile clinics He was the caretaker of the building that he said was nearly complete, but he could not tell the exact number of workers at the site at the time of the tragedy. &ldquo;I have been operating a general shop where my brother was at the time of the incident. We struggled to get him out alive but he passed away unfortunately,&rdquo; said Gugo. Another victim, John Nyangau, 36, died while asleep in his rented house adjacent to the collapsed building. The wall of one side of the house crumbled when the 10-storey building collapsed on it. His elder brother, Steve Nyangau said John had just got into the house after a night shift in their family hotel. John&rsquo;s wife Elizabeth Kinuthi had just left the house for work and their child had also left to visit his cousins in a nearby estate. &ldquo;When we heard of the incident we rushed to the scene and tried to call our brother&rsquo;s phone, but he did not answer. We suspected something was wrong,&rdquo; said Steve. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;