President Uhuru Kenyatta has lashed out at Opposition leader Raila Odinga for his persistent criticism of the Jubilee government. Addressing Bungoma residents yesterday during a stop-over in Kanduyi on his way to Kibabii University, Uhuru said confrontational politics would not do the country any good and wondered why Raila wants to lead a country that he keeps terming as &lsquo;failed&rsquo;. &ldquo;Raila&rsquo;s job from morning to evening is to criticise my government. Such utterances cannot bring development. He does not see any positive thing to talk about this country. I wonder why he wants to lead a bad country,&rsquo;&rsquo; said Uhuru. The President also accused Raila of failing to assist residents of western Kenya when he served in the coalition government as the Prime Minister, saying Pan Paper mills and Mumias Sugar Company collapsed under his watch. &ldquo;Some industries in western region began to collapse when Raila served as prime minister in the Kibaki government. I am trying my best to revive these factories to uplift the livelihoods of locals. Unfortunately, we are told we have no development record,&rsquo;&rsquo; he said. Uhuru reiterated his government will continue to initiate development projects across the country stating he is optimistic Pan Paper mills will be operational soon. READ MORE Ruto accuses Raila of defending corruption Raila steps up fight against graft Raila and Uhuru face off over corruption &ldquo;In the coming days, smoke will be seen at Pan-Paper. Webuye town will be an economic centre once the factory reopens. I promise Bungoma people that I will be back to switch on the factory because Jubilee&rsquo;s mandate is development to all Kenyans,&rsquo;&rsquo; he said. Presiding over the first graduation at Kibabii University where he is chancellor, Uhuru warned institutions of higher learning against admitting politicians who do not meet the prerequisite university requirements. He noted that admitting such politicians into the institutions of higher learning lowered education standards. &ldquo;I know it is the political season and politicians are running to universities to obtain papers. Any university found violating the required regulations will face the law because this compromises international standards and quality of education in Kenya,&rdquo; he said. He said that government has injected Sh300 million towards completion of infrastructure development at the institution. &ldquo;To ensure all pending works are completed, I am happy to announce that the Government has given Sh300 million to Kibabii university. I know as an institution, challenges are there but we are determined to do more,&rsquo;&rsquo; he said. The President also challenged the institution to set aside more funds towards research, innovation and entrepreneurship, which he said would contribute to national development in line with Vision 2030. The President later visited Pan-Paper factory in Webuye to assess its reopening progress. He promised area residents that he would visit the region again in December 15, 2016 to preside over the factory&rsquo;s reopening.