Jubilee leaders led by Deputy President William Ruto yesterday hit out at CORD for allegedly scheming not to concede defeat in the August 2017 elections. DP in Tononoka Mombasa DP William Ruto addresses residents of Mombasa at Tononoka ground. They said CORD has sensed defeat and its planned demonstration over the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) was to lay grounds to reject the election outcome. Addressing thousands of Jubilee supporters who thronged the Tononoka historical ground in Mvita, Mombasa, for the launch of&nbsp;Jubilee presidential campaign team,&nbsp;the leaders challenged CORD to publicly state that they would concede defeat if they lost. &quot;IEBC is a constitutional body and political functionaries should not bring their confusion from their parties to it. We will not accept chaos during and after the elections,&quot; said Ruto, who was accompanied by Majority Leader in Parliament Aden Duale, Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya and Kilifi North MP Gideon Mung&#39;aro. He said that IEBC was not an arm of CORD or Jubilee and that those tasked to appoint the new commissioners and implement other reforms should be given time to do their job. ALSO READ: Gideon Moi: Ruto and I are not agents of division Joho attacks Ruto also responded to Mombasa Governor Hassan Ali Joho sustained attacks against him (Ruto), saying he has no time to engage him on &quot;cheap political contests&quot; and propaganda. Ruto said CORD had failed to sell its agenda to the Kenyans and had resorted to spreading propaganda against the Government and planning demonstrations aimed at causing disharmony in the country. The DP said the Government was well on course to resolve the perennial land problem at the Coast and dismissed CORD&#39;s assertion that the solution was in implementation of TJRC report. He said the Government had issued over 1.2 million title deeds since it came to power, with Coast region being the biggest beneficiary. Ruto said the national government would undertake expansion of three main water sources&nbsp;&ndash; Mzima Dam (Taita Taveta), Mwache Dama (Kwale) Baricho (Kilifi)&nbsp;&ndash; in Coast at the cost of over Sh60 billion. The crowds started gathering at the grounds as early as 11am with others holding processions across the streets of the port city before converging at Tononoka. ALSO READ: Kalonzo: DP Ruto is not guaranteed presidency in 2022 The Jubilee leaders termed as &quot;clearest indication&quot; of the changing political landscape at the Coast, which is perceived to be CORD&#39;s stronghold. Duale said Jubilee efforts to revive the tourism sector, Coast&#39;s main economic activity, had begun to bear fruits and that huge infrastructure projects had also begun to take shape. He concurred with Ruto that CORD was bulding the momentum to discredit the next election because its leaders were aware that they would lose. &quot;I want to tell Raila Amolo Odinga that IEBC is an independent commission. They want to discredit IEBC so that they have a reason not to concede the elections and cause the election violence to push for a coalition government,&quot; said Duale. Mvurya said that he would campaign for Jubilee and deliver votes for President Uhuru Kenyatta&#39;s administration because it had delivered its election pledges for the region. &quot;The Coast is ripe for political transformation and change. We have witnessed huge expansion of the road projects and title deeds issued to our people. We must support Jubilee,&quot; said Mvurya. Mung&#39;aro said Coast leaders in Jubilee were at the heart of decision making organs and that the Jubilee government after the next election will be all inclusive. ALSO READ: We shouldn&rsquo;t politicise hiring of IEBC chiefs &quot;For the first time, we have a party that has recognised us as the people of the region. We are not partners but founders of the Jubilee,&quot; said Mung&#39;aro.