Mediocrity is described as something that espouses qualities that are moderate, low, unremarkable or average. In the past couple of weeks, we have been thrown into the vortex of scandals, scams and downright poor leadership. And I cannot help but wonder what we have done to co-create our current reality. It is said that while good leaders bring about transformation, poor leaders only maintain and preserve long-standing mediocrity. A few days ago, I was decrying our leadership and declaring my stand on the common notion that we do not deserve the poor leadership we are experiencing across various realms. A friend who was party to the discussion and who has been a therapist in the past explained the concept of co-creation and why we need to look within ourselves to explain why we keep getting the short end of the stick. She gave an analogy of bad bosses in the workplace. READ MORE Rampant graft reflects lack of values, integrity DP Ruto and Waiguru clash over NYS scandal Raila: I will keep on exposing corrupt cartels in government Apparently, if you find yourself a constant victim, the fact that you are the common denominator is a sign that you are contributing to the situation and you are less of a victim than you acknowledge. In the same way, it seems that we are co-creating the mediocrity that we are currently experiencing. My question, though, is why are we so comfortable receiving average, unremarkable services and leadership, do we not deem ourselves as worthy of better? Where does this attitude come from and do we have any right to expect better if we ourselves are also carrying around these attitudes as we navigate life? Do we deserve anything other than mediocrity in the public space, are we really entitled to better governance? For a start, we elect leaders based on the fact that when seeking votes, none of the front-runners announce that they will ignore us until the next election cycle and make promises they have no intention of making good on. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;