The runaway corruption afflicting the country at every level should prick the conscience of the religious leadership and its flock. Isn&#39;t it time we did serious introspection as members of the clergy as well as the flock as to where we are failing in churning out quality, uncompromising and value-inspired lot from our churches, mosques, temples and synagogues? What goes wrong between the church/mosque/temples and family? As a church leader, I have been troubled deeply by this conundrum of runaway corruption where at family and church levels, people put on a pious mode but in their dealings with the State put a different mode. What is it about the State that makes people switch off their moral and religious obligations? What is so beguiling in the public life that makes people drop their religious and family values almost immediately they get into those institutions? Is the current trend - where people are beginning to celebrate and reward corruption - tenable for such a young democracy as ours? Is this rot sustainable and what is its impact on the quality of our life as a people? What is the end game of our continued downplaying of such seeping and infective evil? Are we sure this is the inheritance we want to pass over to our young ones? Are we proud of ourselves when school children publicly say that our gift to the world is corruption? READ MORE Time for Kenyans to stand up and be counted Stripping Kenya naked of her green cover Fighting graft: Lessons from Botswana Is this what God requires of us, to corrupt our way to heaven or hell? To corrupt earthly systems, trample on the poor, accumulate quick wealth and live opulent and meaningless lives with no value. I am asking all these questions because I want to prick our collective conscience. I wish to encourage each and every one of us to inwardly search ourselves, find out that which inspires us to be corrupt and cast it out. These are not easy questions yet we must begin to grapple with them before we are run out of town by runaway corruption. From my contemplations, I have figured out a number of areas where we are dropping the ball. The most egregious gap in my opinion is the failure by the state and its institutions to nurture the values the church and family instil in the people. From the day a child is born, the church and the family close ranks to equip them with values necessary for quality and more fulfilling life. From the time schooling begins, the church and family lose control of the child to a state institution- the school which, more often than note, pays lip service to religious education and concentrates on subjects that promise success in life. We therefore find this overwhelming preoccupation with the empirical sciences and exams and little consideration for the place of religious education or even physical exercises. The point is that our education system is inclined to churn out pupils and students for the stiff rat race out here. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;