There has been a lot of talk recently about the boy child, formerly advantaged but now hanging on the coattails of the girl child, who has been the beneficiary of all manner of projects and programmes designed to empower her. Projects and programmes designed to enable her to partake of the same privileges as her male counterpart. Historically, the boy child had been so steeped in privilege that you might have thought he was born that way. But the truth is that the silver spoon was placed in his mouth as soon as he opened it to take his first breath. It might have been placed there by his fathers and forefathers but it has certainly been held in position by his mothers and their daughters. Long and short of it, the balance of power has traditionally been skewed in the boy child&rsquo;s favour. But fortunately or unfortunately, depending on if you are male or female, have a son or a daughter, that imbalance was corrected with the advent of the &lsquo;empower the girl child&rsquo; movement. It started slow but then gained momentum to the point that in the bigger picture, boys are now relegated to the background. That&rsquo;s how the story goes. READ MORE STARLET'S HISTORIC DAY:coach Ouma to name Kenya&rsquo;s first ever women&rsquo;s team to AWCON Millions of British women skipping meals to lose weight Pope says he believes ban on female priests is forever There is a school of thought that would have you believe that women and girls have shot to the skies in all areas of their lives, leaving boys and men to eat their stardust. And there is some truth to the theory. For some women in certain spheres of life, things have certainly improved. There are laws specifically designed to protect and uplift the females in Kenyan society, laws which the courts have not shied away from enforcing. Perceptions about what a woman can and cannot do have shifted so that they now have access to a broader range of opportunities than they have ever had before. And yet any woman will tell you that regardless of all the talk and action around &lsquo;equal opportunity&rsquo;, the playing field is not level. There is still a slight tilt that normalises a state of affairs where only five out of 21 Cabinet secretaries are women. You realise that women are still swimming against the current when a quick review of the figures reveals that there are less than 20 female senators in a pool of almost 70. And not even one female governor. Men are still the dominant gender in business as well. Many more of them populate boards and sit in corner offices. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;