Meru Governor Peter Munya&rsquo;s Party of National Unity (PNU) shook Meru County for the second day yesterday pulling an impressive show. He urged residents to do a &ldquo;five-piece&rdquo; vote for party candidates in 2017. The convoy of hundreds of branded cars, trucks and public service vehicles snaked through Ruiri, Kianjai, Muthara, Kangeta, Maua, Mikinduri and Kagaene towns selling PNU to the locals. The three-day extravaganza has been dubbed &ldquo;PNU homecoming&rdquo; following a contentious dissolution into the Jubilee coalition two months ago. The party was restored to life through a court process and proceeded to elevate Munya as its party leader. The show has also turned into a referendum on the political career of Meru Senator and Munya&rsquo;s main rival in the gubernatorial contest Kiraitu Murungi and his &ldquo;Kikali&rdquo; alliance comprising himself, MPs Mithika Linturi and Florence Kajuju. Years of suffering READ MORE Meru leaders split over Senator Kiraitu team's visit to DP Ruto Meru Deputy Governor eyes MP seat Munya's PNU takeover rattles Meru as Kiraitu insists Jubilee is the party to beat But Kiraitu dismissed the launch of PNU in the county terming the move as politically inconsequential. He said that efforts by the Meru governor to popularise the party would amount to nothing because the county was under the Jubilee Party&rsquo;s grip. &ldquo;The launch is politically inconsequential, it adds to nothing much, Jubilee Party will in the next two to three weeks launch in Meru and the event will make the PNU even child play,&rdquo; said Kiraitu on phone. Meanwhile, in all the stops, Munya proposed to the people that Kiraitu hangs his boots next year rather than wait for defeat. &ldquo;It has been 30 years of suffering for the people of Meru under Kiraitu. Rather than help our people, he worked hard to earn himself a dubious reputation among Kenyans and to bring shame to our county,&rdquo; Munya said in Muthara. He claimed that Kiraitu&rsquo;s stint at the Energy Ministry did not help the county. He claimed the Ministry has since blossomed after Kiraitu&rsquo;s exit. In Kangeta town, Munya&rsquo;s political zealots thronged the roadside chanting his slogans and dancing wildly. In Maua town, Munya received similar frenzied reception from diehard supporters who allowed him to address them. Together with party Secretary General John Anunda and other officials, Munya opened PNU office in Maua town. &ldquo;We must empower him for the greater battle ahead. And the only way to empower him is to elect PNU MCA, MP, Senator, Governor and Woman Representative on voting day. We must start from here in Meru before we send him out there to other Kenyans,&rdquo; Mary Mwiti, a women representative aspirant told the people of Kianjai. Martin Bikuri who is gunning for Imenti North parliamentary seat asked residents not to embarrass Munya. Bikuri and Mwiti are county executives in Munya&rsquo;s government. Julius Kimathi, the county secretary is also in the race for Imenti Central. Munya said they will all leave the county executive when they begin active campaigns for their respective bids. Lawyer Mugambi Imanyara who is vying for Senate seat on PNU ticket told the people of Meru to grant themselves a bargaining power in national politics by sticking to PNU. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;