In his campaign, US presidential-elect Donald Trump had three main thematic agendas. The most important one is his views on migrants and particularly Muslims, the other is a vague term he uses; Let&rsquo;s make America Great Again! The third is creating jobs for the large number of the mostly American underclass. These themes seem to have resonated well with mainly the deprived and desperate white voters that surprisingly included 53 per cent white women despite all the allegations about abusing women and using derogatory terms about them. But Trump is a right-wing demagogue. All his speeches were filled with hate and rejected other cultures and countries. He became a radicalised right winger. The triumph of Donald Trump&rsquo;s right wing approach is not an isolated issue. It has happened before albeit on a small scale. Since the early 1990s after the collapse of the Berlin Wall, the rise of the extreme right groups in Europe started. That was way before the start of the massive migration by people from the developing world to the more prosperous Western Europe and America. Austria saw the rise of Jorge Haider, who galvanised the imagination of the Austrian people by portraying foreigners in general and Muslims in particular as the dangerous enemy. His demagogic rhetoric earned his party many seats in the National Parliament and was even co-opted into the ruling coalition. READ MORE What Kenyans can learn from Trump surprise victory Trump win echoes Kibaki&rsquo;s 2002 election triumph How leaders like Trump appeal to bitter voters Many other European countries saw Jorge Haider wannabes rising and some have succeeded in rousing right-wing passion in a substantial percentage of their people. In Holland, there was Pim Fortuyn, in Belgium there was Filip De Winter, and in the UK the UKIP leader Nigel Farage actually was one of Mr Trump&rsquo;s main advisers in this election. He even attended one of the three presidential debates. After Mr Trump&rsquo;s victory, all his extreme right friends sent their congratulations. Most moderate European leaders were not in a hurry to recognise or congratulate The Donald. In all these, Islam is the enemy number one and they never hide it. This political climate has created essentially a clash of two cultures and philosophy. In 1995 Willie Claes, then NATO Secretary General had started talking about Islam as being the next challenge for NATO. So the tone had already been set to make hatred against Islam almost look like a conspiracy. The rise of ISIL and Al Qaeda therefore is clearly linked by right wing groups to Islam attempting to take over the world. One European writer predicted Islam might take over the western world. The migration of Muslims either as refugees or migrant workers is just the Trojan horse through which Islam is trying to establish itself in Western Europe and America and take over possibly the whole world, they claim. This fear has been exacerbated by the fact that the population of Muslims in Europe would be around 30 per cent by the year 2050, which is just less than 40 years from now. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;