The Government has embarked on a drive to map Kenyan soils to establish their nutrient deficiency in a bid to improve agricultural production. Over the years, the country&rsquo;s soils have lost ability to supply macro and micro nutrient elements in the amounts, forms, and proportions required for optimum crop growth. Given that agriculture is considered the backbone of the country&rsquo;s economy since it contributes about 25 per cent of the gross domestic product, the State is determined to improve soil fertility. Mapping soils will help agricultural extension officers advise both the farmer and the State appropriately on regions that require fertiliser to improve soil nutrients and boost yields. With ongoing drought in some parts of the country, the Ministry of Agriculture is keen to ensure that soil erosion becomes history and soil fertility is bolstered. According to Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Willy Bett, there is need to transform agriculture into a modern, innovative and commercially-oriented sector as envisioned in the Vision 2030 goals. READ MORE Counties in Kenya seek say in coffee marketing Africa pays for West's climate mess, and it's bound to get worse Kenyans starve as plenty crops rot in farms &ldquo;It is imperative that land productivity is improved and sustained through proper management of soils and this is why we have come up with a soil management policy,&rdquo; he said. In a statement to various county executives, the CS disclosed that the agricultural sector contributes 75 per cent of industrial raw material and accounts for 60 per cent of export earnings. Over the years research has shown that Kenyan farmers barely got 25 per cent of their potential yields due to poor soil nutrients. This was attributed to low or little use of organic and inorganic fertilisers, which was still less than 10 kilogrammes per hectare as compared to the recommended 75 kilogramme. &ldquo;Soil is the largest store of terrestrial carbon and its preservation may contribute to climate change and adaptation and mitigations,&rdquo; said Agriculture PS Richard Lesiyampe. Mr Lesiyampe asked agriculture extension officers to help farmers identify the appropriate fertilisers to use in their farms in order to boost productivity. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;