My name is Victor Kipkemoi Molel. Many people call me fundi (tailor). I am 42 years old and a resident of Kaporuso Village in Bomet East Constituency.I sat my Kenya Certificate of Primary Education exams in 1991 and scored a good grade. I was called to Cheptenye Boys High School in Kericho County but I opted to go to Kaporuso High School instead.While in Form Two, I was in and out of school because of lack of fees. My parents tried the best they could to raise my school fees, but they couldn&rsquo;t get enough. They sold firewood and brewed busaa for sale. On June 10, 1992, I dropped out of school and went home a frustrated man. On September 9 the same year, I escaped from home and trekked to a place called Triangle in Narok County.Life there was hard. I lived in a temporary shelter and indulged in heavy drinking of illicit brews. I cut off communication completely with family members.Later, I moved to Ololulunga Town where I started a business of collecting hides and skins from the nearby villages and selling them for a profit to more established traders.One day, I went to a chang&rsquo;aa drinking den and forgot to lock the door to my house. When I returned, the Sh30,000 I had kept under the cover of the mattress was not there.Later I got saved and went back home to my family who at this point were almost strangers. Family members were overjoyed to see me again. This was a crucial turning point in my life. I got married in 2000 and I am now blessed with four children.I discovered later that tailoring was my calling and took a course. I started a cloth repair business in 2001 in Kembu Township with a capital of Sh140. I used the money to buy sewing thread and lubricating oil for a hired sewing machine. A shopkeeper allowed me to use his verandah to operate the business on condition that I kept it clean.The business gradually grew and I opened my own tailoring shop. In 2013, I went to Kaptembwo in Nakuru to pursue a three-month course in leather shoe making. I bought a second-hand heavy duty leather sewing machine for Sh60,000 (a new one costs about Sh150,000). My wife and I operate the tailoring and leather shoe making businesses with two full-time employees.I am now stitching my way to success through tailoring business. My future plan is to open a big workshop with modern equipment, give back to the community by training less-fortunate youths for free.