Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has warned politicians against party hopping and wrangling, terming them as political sins. The former vice president said it was wrong for politicians to waste time and energy engaging in squabbles with their perceived opponents. He said they would rather engage in healthy competition and service to the electorate. &quot;Politicians commit political sins by deserting their own political parties and jumping to other parties on whose tickets they were not elected on. One virtue of true leadership is having a firm political stand,&quot; Mr Kalonzo said. Kalonzo spoke at ACK Boarding Primary School in Wote where he attended the county&#39;s first ever breakfast prayer meeting. &quot;Please, take a stand because it will save us from many ills. Doing what is right will vindicate us from the burden of blame because our subjects are also watching,&quot; he added. Wiper has lost several elected leaders to Jubilee Party. READ MORE Apologise now or else... Mutua tells Kalonzo Wetang&rsquo;ula: Why Raila and Kalonzo should leave it to me Don&rsquo;t panic, Raila tells Kenyans Kalonzo urged politicians to stick to established guidelines relating to how political parties and coalitions should conduct themselves. &quot;But the important question of who becomes the leader of this country is the sovereign responsibility of God himself,&quot; he said. Governor Kivutha Kibwana, who hosted Kalonzo, promised to support him. Kalonzo said it was &quot;politically sinful&quot; for Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua to betray him and the party after he gave him Sh1 million for campaigns in the 2013 elections. He asked leaders across the board to show unity of purpose as the August 8, 2017 elections get closer. He said leaders should adhere to the principles and ideologies of the parties that sponsored them. &quot;Leaders who betray others commit political sin and (are) guilty of prejudice. What do you call someone who is elected on one party&#39;s ticket and jumps to another?&quot; Kalonzo asked. Kalonzo asked leaders to show they have some principles which, he said, will prove their leadership qualities and standing. &quot;Let us show the sense of direction as leaders and I am sure this will help us move forward as a nation. Let us be principled when it comes to political decisions. The presidency is in the hands of God. Physically we will fight and grumble for no reason&quot; Kalonzo said.