When Mathew Lekidime Lempurkel, contested the Laikipia North parliamentary seat in 2013, his critics wrote him off as a none starter. Lempurkel proved them wrong when the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) announced that he had trounced at least four other candidates to win the seat on an Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party ticket. But there are many sides to Lempurkel. When in his Laikipia North constituency, Lempurkel is an easy going man who effortlessly interacts with his elders and peers. He is the kind of person who will mingle with a group of elders and spend hours chatting in Samburu language. But beneath the veneer of social decorum lies another Lempurkel, one that is no stranger to controversy, the most&nbsp; recent being court charges of assaulting his political rival, United Republican Party (URP) Nominated MP Sarah Lekorere. READ MORE MPs want Kenyans to benefit from lands whose leases have expired Leicester's Drinkwater banned for three matches Plans on for Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau's manifesto launch HARSHEST CRITIC Lekorere, who is eyeing the Laikipia North MP&rsquo;s seat, has been one of the politician&rsquo;s harshest critics, accusing him of, among other things, belittling and demeaning women. Before his election as MP, Lempurkel was a renowned philanthropist, the executive director of Ndugu Zangu Christian Community Charitable Trust. The Catholic Church-based organisation was instrumental in changing the lives of thousands of children with heart problems, who it sponsored for surgeries in leading cardiac hospitals in Italy among other parts of the world. The organisation further helped pipe water from the Ewaso Nyiro River to far-flung areas of Ol Donyiro and Kipsing in Isiolo county, among other multi-million shilling development projects. But even then, Lempurkel was not far removed from controversy. Shortly before the 2007 General Election, he was arrested for insulting an area district commissioner. It was not established how the matter ended but he was not arraigned in court. In September 2014, the MP caused a stir when he was kicked out of an Emirates Airline for allegedly demanding to be served a Kenyan beer. The MP was barred from flying to Europe for allegedly being drunk and disorderly. He was forced to disembark from the plane at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) after the pilot reportedly declared him a &ldquo;rogue passenger.&rdquo; Mr Lempurkel was to accompany a group of MPs who were headed to Austria. Sources said he boarded the plane while drunk. An MP who accompanied Lempurkel and who sought anonymity said the lawmaker demanded to be served with a certain brand of Kenyan beer. The MP said the plane had been delayed for about 10 minutes while waiting for the MP, only for him to board and start a fuss over beer. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;