Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang&rsquo;i, the Kenya National Examination Council (KNEC) and the Teachers Service Commission deserve should be commended for conducting a near-incident free Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) examination. This year&rsquo;s test that ended on Thursday largely went smoothly across the country, without major hiccups. Previous tests have been marred by reports of exam leakage and cases of cheating involving pupils, teachers and sometimes even parents. All too often, candidates were found with copies of the exam, putting into jeopardy the credibility of the tests. Apprehensive candidates were at their wits end worrying about their chances of competing fairly for the scarce places in secondary schools. This unfair competition often drove desperate parents to seek short cuts and many fell victim to unscrupulous individuals who conned them of huge amounts of money to get leaked exam papers. It would appear that this is all behind us. Dr Matiang&rsquo;i has proved that with focus and determination any ministry can achieve what it sets out to do. When he introduced the tough new rules to curb exam cheating, the Cabinet Secretary faced a huge backlash and criticism from several quarters. But the indefatigable minister was steadfast. He sacked KNEC officials who were behind some of the exam cheating cartels, and ensured that rules to curb exam fraud were implemented. It was encouraging to see the Cabinet Secretary and senior ministry officials visiting exam centres to ensure that the tests went on smoothly. This was a far cry from the empty threats issued before exams in previous years. The ministry often issued these threats only to coil in shame when incidents of blatant cheating were exposed. There were hardly any serious efforts to discourage individuals who had access to exam papers from leaking them out. But this time round, the minister disbanded the former disgraced KNEC board and appointed individuals with integrity to the board that is chaired by Prof George Magoha. This is as it should be. Kenya&rsquo;s prospects are hinged on a well-educated generation. The results of national examinations must be credible. READ MORE Onjiko Boys' night raid on girls' school foiled Two AP officers hospitalised after shooting each other while guarding KCPE exam Girl faints as she awaits second KCPE paper The CS and his team must replicate this success when the non-practical examinations of the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) kick off next week. The Ministry of Education must restore the credibility of these exams as well, and this means that the marking must be fair as well.