David and Arnold leave school at 4pm. They then board one of the many buses contracted by Karen C Primary School to transport learners to and from school. However, one Friday just a few days before the end of third term, they could not board the bus because they had not paid. The Standard caught up with them at the Bomas Stage on Magadi Road opposite Galleria Mall. The two were among many other school children headed home. One matatu after another came but they were not allowed to board. Some of the touts were clearly not keen to ferry the children. The scramble for the matatus poses a risk to the children as the stage is usually a mess where they can easily be run over. The learners run towards vehicles even before the vehicles stop. When this writer pleaded with a tout to carry even one of the children, his response was condescending. READ MORE Family loses two sons in tragic road accident along Kisii-Keroka road Spinal injury victim in 600km walk to raise Sh4m Two dead, two injured in road accident along Kisii-Sotik road Hit-or-miss &ldquo;Hii gari si ya kubeba watoi wa shule, hii si school bus. (This vehicle is not for carrying school children, it is not a school bus),&rdquo; he retorted. We spend an hour before David and Arnold get a matatu to take them home. Such is the life of school children who depend on public service vehicles to take them home. Boarding a PSV is a hit-or-miss affair as it depends on the mood of the conductors - and touts - whose brief is to collect as much money during the morning rush hour. Traffic Deputy Commandant Pius Barasa says the quagmire is worsened by the law, which is not clear on how children should be transported. &ldquo;Ideally, a child who is below the age of five should get a free ride while those who are above should share a seat. But as you can see in the morning and evenings when the children are going to school or back home the vehicle owners want to make maximum profits hence children cannot get space,&rdquo; said Barasa. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;