NAIROBI, KENYA: As the countdown to World Aids Day to be observed next week gets closer, a Chinese researcher invention of popular herbal concoction has gained recognition as solution to HIV/AIDS and related complications such as TB. Professor Tian Shengxun invented Tian Immunity Booster (TIB), as new approach to effective support to &nbsp;&nbsp;those infected and affected by HIV/ Aids. The therapy is the first oral Fusion Inhibitor drug in the world so far for one of the global health disasters of the century.&nbsp; The therapy has been clinically used for HIV/AIDS for the past almost 25 years mainly in Africa and Asia, it is expected to make it available on European market by the future. According to Prof. Shengxun, as alternative HIV/AIDS therapy, patients using TIB can survive for more than 05, 10 or 15 years respectively. &nbsp; &nbsp;Studies conducted on TIB by Dr. Josef Schneider at Freiburg University (Germany) and similar study by Dr Peter Nara of Biological Mimetics Inc in Maryland State (USA) reveal the drug can inhibit the replication of HIV. At the same time the laboratory assays also have been carried out in UK and Japan.Professor Tian Shengxun explains that TIB &nbsp;is delivering a new approach to people living with HIV/AIDS. The professor says TIB is cheaper compared with conventional antiretroviral (ARV) drugs. Speaking at TIB Center/Clinic for Modern Chinese Medicine, Hurlingham Medicare Plaza, Nairobi, he hails TIB therapy as the first oral fusion inhibitor drug and with multiple targets against HIV/AIDS treatment in the world. Prof.TIAN Shengxun said the TIB therapy has multiple and powerful anti-viral and anti-bacterial functions extracted from 100 percent herbs. Unlike conventional ARVs, TIB Product is a fusion inhibitor to stop the life circle of the HIV virus. He said the TIB therapy has been clinically used for HIV/AIDS for the past 25 years mainly in Africa and Asia. Its clinical efficacy is very promising. Most patients respond very fast and recover soon after TIB therapy. TIB is very safe when taking. The Professor TIAN added that scientifically, TIB has been proven through different laboratory tests in UK, Japan, Germany and USA to protect the CD4 cell from being infected with HIV, the virus that causes AIDS. TIB has been registered by Pharmacy and Poisons Board of the Ministry of Health in Kenya as legal products in the market.