USA: Demonstrators took to the streets across the United States for a second day on Thursday to protest against Donald Trump&#39;s presidential election victory, voicing fears that the real estate mogul&#39;s triumph would deal a blow to civil rights. On the East Coast, protests took place in Washington, Baltimore, Philadelphia and New York, while on the West Coast demonstrators rallied in Los Angeles, San Francisco and Oakland in California, and Portland, Oregon. The protests were for the most part peaceful and orderly, although there were scattered acts of civil disobedience and damage to property. Protesters threw objects at police in Portland and damaged a car lot, the Portland Police Department said on Twitter. Some protesters sprayed graffiti on cars and buildings and smashed store front windows, media in Portland said. &quot;Many in crowd trying to get anarchist groups to stop destroying property, anarchists refusing. Others encouraged to leave area&quot; the department said on Twitter after declaring the demonstration a riot. READ MORE Trump&rsquo;s victory a reversal of fortune for Obama Democratic Party reckoning begins as Obama prepares to leave White House Trump could easily erase much of Obama's foreign policy legacy A handful of protesters were arrested by Portland police, according to a Reuters witness. Dozens in Minneapolis marched onto Interstate 94, blocking traffic in both directions for at least an hour as police stood by. A smaller band of demonstrators briefly halted traffic on a busy Los Angeles freeway before police cleared them off. Baltimore police reported about 600 people marched through the downtown Inner Harbor area, with some blocking roadways by sitting in the street. Two people were arrested, police said. In Denver, a crowd that media estimated to number about 3,000 gathered on the grounds of the Colorado state capitol and marched through downtown in one of the largest of Thursday&#39;s events. Hundreds demonstrated through Dallas. Thursday&#39;s gatherings were generally smaller in scale and less intense than Wednesday&#39;s, and teenagers and young adults again dominated the racially mixed crowds. &quot;Just had a very open and successful presidential election. Now professional protesters, incited by the media, are protesting. Very unfair!&quot; Trump said in a Tweet on Thursday night. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;