You may not envisage the pain I have endured for the last seven years, because it does not show in my general bearing. Dressed in a smart suit, even my hobble may go unnoticed &mdash; my life has been a study in fortitude.I was 23-years-old and a &lsquo;fresher&rsquo; at university when I was first diagnosed with osteogenic sarcoma &mdash; a cancer that starts in the bones. To save my life, I had to have my left leg amputated in 2009.It took five months for the stump to heal before I could leave the hospital in crutches to resume my studies at the University of Nairobi. While dealing with the physical pain took a toll on me, I had no idea how hard it would be to get past the psychological pain that engulfed me &mdash; loosing a limb is not an easy thing.My journey into this phase of my life started with a persistent pain in my shin that I assumed was related to a fall I&rsquo;d had in the football pitch.When the cancer diagnosis was eventually made, it hit our family like a bolt of lighting &mdash; there was no known history of cancer in the family. I am the second born in a family of four children and the first to go to university, you can imagine the devastation the disease had on my parents and siblings.As fate would have it hospice and palliative care, an entity previously unknown to me and my family, came in to offer their emotional support, counseling and treatment services.Their package that roped in my parents, siblings and future wife &mdash; who had just given birth to our son &mdash; included education on the disease and advise to accept what the treatment entailed.We were told curious people would confront us with funny questions and were advised on how best to respond.My family was advised to seek the services of a nutritionist to give guidance on foods best for a patient recovering from cancer.I was taught pain management in the course of chemotherapy and informed of some body changes that would happen.But even with this information beforehand, I was still dumbfounded when the changes started.I was awestruck to see my hair fall off as though it was being physically uprooted each time I washed my head. My nails and tongue turned black and my eyes unnaturally white. The hospice and palliative services played a key role in reassuring us that this was just a passing phase, that things would return to normal once chemotherapy was concluded. It happened exactly as they said seven months later.Surprisingly, the most difficult to manage was the phantom pain caused by my brain&rsquo;s belief that the amputated limb was still there. Once again the hospice and palliative services came in handy, they offered me counselling on how best to manage the situation.To date, I sometimes feel sweat in the soles of both my feet, only for me to remember I have no left foot. There are times I feel an itch on my foot and reach down to scratch it only to be jolted back to reality by the prosthesis. This happens because the nerves that were severed during amputation still send signals to the brain as they did before.The experience keeps invoking the trauma of losing the limb and is terribly painful for one not prepared through proper counseling.I cannot give enough gratitude to Kenya Hospices and Palliative Care Association&nbsp;(KEHPCA) for it is they who have helped thaw my emotional pain and give me hope that all is not lost. They exposed me to support groups of fellow cancer survivors and this motivated me to be positive about my future.I went back to university and graduated in 2011 with a Bachelor of Commerce degree &mdash; second upper class honours. I had done a Certified Public Accountants course and I opted to enroll as a graduate trainee with a multinational global accountancy firm. I was successful and started working as an auditor.In 2015, I moved to Ernst and Young where I am the assistant operations manager. I am also currently pursuing a Master&rsquo;s Degree in strategic management.Buoyed by the role KEHPCA has played in my life thus far, I too play an active role in the hospice and palliative care arena &mdash; helping others who are going through this journey is my way of giving back.