Former Eldoret South MP Peris Simam is finally out of jail after paying Sh6 million fine following her conviction on graft charges one month ago. Peris was sent to jail together with her husband Enoch Simam after they were found guilty of fraudulently acquiring property, conspiring to commit a crime and abuse of office charges by Eldoret Chief Magistrate Wanjiku Cherere on October 7 this year. She was however set free yesterday after paying a fine of Sh6,208,675. The couple, who were convicted with four other suspects were sentenced to serve 18 years in jail or pay a collective fine of Sh12.2 million, with the magistrate refusing to give bail for all the convicted persons who have been behind bars since the judgment was made. Their lawyer, Dennis Magare however said Peris, who on the first instance of getting locked up fell ill was still unwell and would address the Press and the public at her Bindura home on Saturday (today). &ldquo;My client is free at last after we paid the required amount of&nbsp;fine. We are working on getting Enoch out, we hoped to have raised the amount for the latter but time caught up with us and so agreed to have Peris out because she has not been feeling well,&rdquo; said Mr Magare. READ MORE Rights groups launch weekly anti-graft protests in Mombasa Man in court for impersonating a Kenya Power employee Trump due in court before Oval Office Magare further said they will continue with the appeal they have lodged at the High Court, and that they will exhaust all appeal avenues. According to Magare, they are also working towards securing his third client - Wisdom Kimutai who was also convicted in the matter and was fined Sh850,000. Laban Shachile, Pamela Maluti and John Khaemba were also fined Sh850,000 each for various graft charges, otherwise they would get six and half years in jail. The six were convicted for conspiring to commit an economic crime between January 6, 2010 and April 1, 2010, by influencing the contracting of the Bayete-Chuiyat-Bargeiywa Road in Eldoret South Constituency for maintenance to Kachur Holding Limited, which did not qualify because one of its directors was a public servant. The chief magistrate&nbsp;found the six guilty of 10 counts of corruption, after which their defense lawyers applied for the suspension of the sentence and/or allow them to pay bail and stay out of prison, waiting for the appeal but Cherere denied the application. She said the applicants failed to present exceptional and unusual circumstances to be granted bail.&nbsp;