Deputy President William Ruto has hit out at CORD leader Raila Odinga, accusing him of criticising development projects being implemented by the Jubilee administration. Addressing political rallies after inspecting various projects and presiding over a funds drive in aid of churches in Taita-Taveta County yesterday, the DP urged Kenyans not to listen to falsehoods being perpetrated by the Opposition. &ldquo;We are implementing development projects to improve the living standards of Kenyans. The Opposition should stop criticising them,&rdquo; said the DP. He added: &ldquo;Opposition leaders and their families are using piped water and yet they are opposing such projects. They are fond of opposing projects being implemented by the Government yet many Kenyans are suffering from persistent water shortages,&rdquo; said Ruto. Ruto, whose source of funds has regularly been questioned by Opposition leaders, contributed Sh1.5 million to the funds drive. He commissioned Bura milk cooling plant before addressing political rallies in Mwatate and Taveta constituencies to drum up support for the Jubilee Party. READ MORE Jubilee to appoint county campaign officials in two weeks 300 Jubilee aspirants express fear of skewed party primaries Invest in credible polls, Raila tells Africa leaders &ldquo;They (Opposition leaders) are going round the country looking for leadership positions. They are telling Kenyans they are looking for leadership to transform the country and yet they are opposing every project undertaken by the Government to benefit of all Kenyans,&rdquo; said Ruto. He said the former prime minister had persistently opposed water projects such as the Ndakaini and Itare dams meant to supply water to thousands of people. Ruto caused laughter when he said Raila will also resist implementation of the the Sh42 billion Mzima II pipeline that is aimed at supplying water to Taita Taveta County among other coastal counties. Water projects &ldquo;The former premier is fond of opposing projects implemented by the government; soon, he will oppose the Mzima 11 water pipeline,&rdquo; he said. Addressing a rally after officially opening Kishenyi dam in Werugha location&nbsp;in Wundanyi constituency, the DP said the Government has set aside more than Sh50 billion for implementation of water projects at&nbsp;the Coast. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;