Taita Taveta Senator Dan Mwazo&rsquo;s decision last week to endorse Wiper Democratic Movement leader Kalonzo Musyoka for CORD presidential ticket has elicited mixed reactions in the county. Mwazo (pictured) has been Raila&rsquo;s close ally since the Grand Coalition Government, when he served as Tourism Minister, but lately their relationship cannot be described as cordial. Mwazo&rsquo;s decision not to participate in the ODM grassroots elections early this year was probably an indication of how sour his relationship with the party is. Some local leaders have accused him of lacking consistency in his politics, but others termed his move as tactical, as he could be targeting the Kamba community that constitutes a significant voting bloc in the region. Governor John Mruttu criticised the senator for having no consistent political stand. Mruttu said CORD needs leaders with a definite stand on issues and who should be bold enough to declare whether or not they belong to CORD or have other plans. &ldquo;The habit of singing different tunes on different podiums and on different days is a sign of lack of trustworthiness,&rdquo; Mruttu said of the senator&rsquo;s behaviour. READ MORE Governor Mutua to sue Kalonzo for 'defamation' Musalia, Kalonzo and Wetang&rsquo;ula to be endorsed as presidential candidates Kalonzo to blame for poverty in Ukambani, says Governor Mutua Wundanyi MP Thomas Mwadeghu, who is also eyeing the governor&rsquo;s seat, said Mwazo has a right to endorse Kalonzo and should not be condemned for it. Mwadeghu, who is also the National Assembly Minority Whip and a member of ODM, said Mwazo has most likely defected to Wiper. &ldquo;The truth of the matter will however be known in two weeks when the list of ODM aspirants for 2017 will be out. We will know who is on our side and the moles&rdquo; he said. ODM has set November 30 as the deadline for applications from aspirants seeking to run on its ticket in next year&rsquo;s polls. Mwazo&rsquo;s silence and his closeness to some senior Jubilee politicians has also kept his supporters speculating. Last year, he accompanied President Uhuru Kenyatta during the commissioning of the Arusha-Holili-Taveta-Voi road rehabilitation project in Taveta town. When Raila toured the county recently, he told a rally at Buguta trading centre, Mwazo&rsquo;s home turf, that his longtime friend had abandoned him. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;