Police in Nyamira are investigating an incident where a group of activists protesting against alleged corruption in the county government were attacked. Youths armed with clubs and whips are said to have accosted the activists in Konate where they had converged to start the protests. The activists were forced to disperse in different directions, some ending up at Nyamira Police Station where they reported the attack. Police later escorted two people who were said to have been leading the protests to their homes. Area OCPD Rico Ngare said they have already launched investigations into the attack. &ldquo;The report is in our records and we are seeking to find out who was responsible for the attack,&rdquo; he said. Uwezekano Initiative, a local lobby group, had organised the demo to protest against alleged corruption and abuse of office by county officials. READ MORE FKF DIV ONE: Hema Moja blown away by Griffins Could 'wananchi' be the main drivers of corruption in Kenya? Raila, DP Ruto trade accusations over corruption TAME GRAFT Ms Martha Makori, the group&rsquo;s chairman, said they wanted to hand Governor John Nyagarama a petition over alleged corruption. Other than taming corruption, Makori urged the governor to also take action against two county government officials said to have fought in public. A letter signed by area OCS Alex Mumo shows the activists sought permission to hold the protests and therefore, they expected police protection. &ldquo;It is against the leadership and integrity laws for government officials to fight in public. The law states any officer holding a public office should not act in a manner that demeans his position. That is why we wanted to hand the governor our petition so he can act. However, we never got to do it after goons attacked us,&rdquo; Makori said. She added: &ldquo;A female member of staff was suspended after she reportedly fought with her husband at their home. We want the governor to take similar action against the officers who fought publicly.&rdquo; GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;