My name is Laurah Nyangasi. I was born and raised in Gurugwa Village in Wodanga Ward, Sabatia Constituency, in Vihiga County. From a tender age, I yearned to ensure everyone was treated right, even if it meant sacrificing my own comfort.Although I enjoyed a good early life, despite being brought up by a single mother, some things happening around me were disheartening. Many heartbreaking cases of girls dropping out of school or who were raped or forced into early marriages gave me the zeal to want to empower the girl-child.At 22, I founded a charity organisation that would purely support the needy in society, Light Foundation. The foundation helps young girls and boys with school uniforms, sanitary pads for girls and empowers those who are not in school. I hold a Bachelor of Commerce degree, human resource option from the Kenya College of Accountancy University. In 2015, former Devolution Cabinet Secretary Anne Waiguru awarded me &lsquo;Inspirational Woman of the Year Award&rsquo;, for being an inspiring woman of the year from Vihiga County. The award recognised hope restoration of several women from Langata Women Prison, which Light Foundation visited frequently to talk to those jailed.The award came as a surprise. It made me appreciate the fact that someone somewhere could also reward me for my efforts to save the girl-child. My greatest desire is to see a country where the rich share whatever they have with the poor and a Kenya where the poor have the same employment opportunities as the rich.It is saddening to see that girls still have difficulties accessing sanitary pads. Some of them are forced to drop out of school when their periods begin.Astounding levels of poverty in many parts of the country have forced our girls to live in deplorable states. There is a need to help them achieve what they want by being comfortable.Light Foundation has been able to provide over 50,000 girls across the country with free sanitary pads, school uniforms and mentorship programmes.Last year in August, I led a delegation to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that saw the rescue of five women who were suffering in servitude in Saudi Arabia. The women were brought back home safely.