Hillary Clinton&rsquo;s supporters have challenged Americans turn out in large numbers next Tuesday to vote, warning that failure to do so will automatically give Donald Trump an edge in the US Presidential Polls. &nbsp;As the two Presidential nominees pitched tent in the swing vote States for last minute campaigns to woo undecided voters to elect them, Clinton&rsquo;s team was in Virginia led by her opponent for the Democratic party ticket former Maryland Governor Martin O&rsquo;Malley.Similar to Trump&rsquo;s team in the area also busy seeking voters in regions predominantly Democrats, they urged their supporters to ensure their cast the ballot of the elections Day. But for O&rsquo;Malley, his message to the American voters is that Trump and Clinton are campaigning on a contract platform and the issues dear to each is light day and night.&ldquo;I continue to call upon the voters to ensure they turn out to cast their ballot.&nbsp; Not voting is voting for Trump. Only those who don&rsquo;t believe in the American vision will want to stay home,&rdquo; said O&rsquo;Malley of the undecided voters who have threatened to boycott the exercise.He continued, &ldquo;This election is about choice of freedom or fascism. It&rsquo;s about keeping President Barrack Obama&rsquo;s legacy alive. It&rsquo;s about the future. Anybody with sane mind would not want Trump in office.&rdquo;He went ahead to argue that going by how low Republican endorsement of Trump has taken American politics to the &lsquo;dogs&rsquo;, it&rsquo;s up to the voters to ensure sanity prevails and this can only be realized through the ballot.He said the country has gone through serious struggles and needs a focused leader.&ldquo;Comparing the candidates, Trump is too high while Clinton is too low. Clinton is advancing issues dear to the common America like equal pay for equal work, job growth, labour laws, the criminal justice system, climate change which is both a threat and business and Medicare,&rdquo; outlined O&rsquo;Malley.On the other hand, the former governor advocates for things that are just way off.&nbsp;&ldquo;There is a clear striking difference between Trump and Clinton. Trump should have not clinched the party ticket of a major party.&nbsp; He should have been a third candidate in this race,&rdquo; stated O&rsquo;Malley.He warned that a Trump presidency will spell doom for America, while Clinton&rsquo;s presidency is guaranteed continuation of ongoing policies both domestic and foreign.He said the country might go into recession if Trump is elected presidency and because of his business connections, he might offer taxes breaks to big companies.&ldquo;Trump&rsquo;s presidency signals a second recession. He is also a global disappointment. Russian President Vladimir Puttin is his friend. He has said he is ready to order the military to combat and kill mothers and children, this is not the president we want,&rdquo; he said, when he talked to African Americans at Hampton University.He continued, &ldquo;This is indeed a humbling election. The country is polarized and we must come through it. When you hear of plans to jail Clinton when she loses to Trump, building walls to separate America from other countries and segregate Muslims and review immigration laws.O&rsquo;Malley who also campaigned for Clinton in Virginia Beach and Richmond regretted to note that has a result of the campaigns witnessed this year, and the first of its kind in American history, questions of moral values and the credibility of the electoral system have been brought to the fore.Virginia States Senate Mamie Locke and Virginia 2nd District Democratic Federal House of representative nominee Shaun Brown also weighed on the matter, saying Americans have to vote to ensure Clinton wins with a landslide.&ldquo;Clinton&rsquo;s presidency will be breaking barriers especially for the women. It also sounds as a third term for President Obama and therefore the victory might be with a big margin to avoid any petitions,&rdquo; said Brown.She continued, &ldquo;President Obama set the stage for the country&rsquo;s leadership. Trump is talking of destroying everything. It is important especially for the black Americans to turn out and vote for Clinton.&rdquo;Locke in making reference to President Obama&rsquo;s calls to the African Americans to vote in large numbers as not doing so, is an insult, said it&rsquo;s only Clinton who can redeem the American image dented in the campaigns.&ldquo;Completely and totally irresponsible. It thinks he is dealing with plantation economy not done anything with millions of dollars and sued and for discrimination. It&rsquo;s too bad President Obama cannot go for a third term.Senator Locke said Clinton gives Americans the kind of hope they want in continuing the Obama legacy, embroiled in name calling and much negatives.&ldquo;This election is just a departure from the past. The candidates are not addressing foreign or domestic policies&rsquo; issues are required,&rdquo; said Senator Locke.Christopher Newport University Scholars Racheal Bitecofer and Quentin Kidd argued that both candidates much win from the populous State like Florida, North Caroline and Ohio.&ldquo;To get the required over 270 Electoral College, the candidates have to win this &lsquo;battleground &lsquo;states.&nbsp; Ohio, Florida and Pennsylvania for any who wins, the race is done,&rdquo; said Prof. Kidd.(Roselyne is participating in a 2016 U.S General Elections Embed program administered by the International Center for Journalists (ICFJ) and sponsored by the US State Department&#39;s Foreign Press Centers and US Embassy Posts)