Mary Murimi, 37, has lived in Mukuru slums for the last six years. Mukuru, she says, is not the best place to live in the city but as the rent is only Sh2,500 for a two-room iron sheet house, this is the best she can afford. Ms Murimi feels safe living in the house despite the many fires that are witnessed in the area that she says &ldquo;miraculously never touched her home&rdquo;. In fact, she never thinks much about the high voltage power cables hanging over her house. &ldquo;I have never thought of them as dangerous,&rdquo; she said with a smile yesterday. &ldquo;In fact, we are more afraid that gas cylinders in our houses may cause fire compared to electricity on overhead transmission lines.&rdquo; But according to Kenya Power, Murimi and all those who live under high voltage power cables should be very afraid. The company&rsquo;s Regional Manager, Nairobi West, Phineas Marete termed this a &ldquo;time bomb&rdquo; and asked residents of Mathare, Dandora, Kibera, Embakasi Village and Dam to keep off the lines, which he said carry up to 66,000 volts. In case of a fire outbreak, Marete cautioned, there would be no possibility of salvaging anything. READ MORE New study shows cancer knows tribe Rogue Kenya Power employees carrying out illegal connections at a fee Asbestos-roofed houses causing cancer in Kenya &ldquo;It is not that we are anticipating anything wrong, but if it happens, it would be the worst disaster of all times,&rdquo; Mr Marete warned. nine metres He explained that it only requires 10 amps of power (which is six hundredth of the 66,000 volts) to cause death. He said the cables suspended on concrete poles feed sub-stations that later redistribute the power at a lower voltage of 11,000. The power is then transmitted on wooden poles to transformers and to homes and business at 240 volts. According to energy regulations, no buildings or trees are allowed nine metres on both sides of high voltage power lines. For the 11,000-volt power lines the permissible distance is three metres, while for 240 volts it is one metre. &ldquo;The 320,000 and 220,000 volt lines are usually suspended much higher in towers. The measures are in place due to the numerous maintenance exercises carried out by Kenya Power and for safety purposes of the residents,&rdquo; she said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;