Civil society organisations have blamed the International Criminal Court&nbsp; (ICC) for succumbing to political pressure and recommend that it should be restructured. The African Centre for Open Governance (Africog) and Kenyans for Peace with Truth and Justice (KPTJ) said in their report that it was mistake to allow President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto to run for office when they facing criminal charges at the ICC. The report was published to coincide with the ongoing ICC Assembly of State Parties (ASP) at The Hague. The report, Impunity restored? Lessons learned from the failure of the Kenyan cases at the ICC, took stock of cases involving Kenyans in the ICC. Domestic politics &ldquo;As a matter of Kenya&rsquo;s constitutional law, Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto, should not&nbsp;&mdash; as individuals facing the most serious charges known to law&nbsp;&mdash; have been able to run for president and deputy president of a country that is a member of the ICC,&rdquo; the report said. It noted that after their election, the pair were able to use the instruments of State power &ldquo;to obstruct all attempts by the Office of the Prosecutor to collect evidence from State agencies in Kenya.&rdquo; The Office of the Attorney General in effect acted as counsel for the accused, rather than a State Law Office, the report noted. &ldquo;Being the president and deputy president, the two accused were able to use the machinery of the State to identify and then target witnesses; to compromise them, to intimidate them.&rdquo;&nbsp; On September 19, ICC&rsquo;s trial chamber confirmed that Kenya had not complied with its obligations to co-operate with the court and referred the matter to the ASP. It was noted that the court was vulnerable to domestic politics and international diplomacy. According to the authors of the report, propaganda was used to &ldquo;first, to outflank and second, to diplomatically undermine both the Office of the Prosecutor and the Court.&rdquo; &nbsp; The report says it is probable that the decision by the court to excuse both Kenyatta and Ruto from continuous presence at trial was a concession to AU pressure. African countries were accused of&nbsp; hypocrisy, because although they were opposed to the court handling their cases, it is these nations that had referred these cases to the court. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;