Baringo Senator Gideon Moi yesterday dismissed Kanu&rsquo;s critics in the Rift Valley as more than 10 members of Baringo County Assembly pledged support for the Kanu National Chairman ahead of the General Election. Speaking in Marigat town, Gideon said Kanu&rsquo;s development and social activities have nothing to do with individuals but are aimed at ensuring that all Kenyans have a reason to be proud of their country. Describing those speaking ill of the party as self-seekers, the senator said that Kanu&rsquo;s interest is to see a corruption-free country governed by people of high integrity. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s true we have no plan for them because our plans are on how to put in place elaborate measures, on security, education, health, infrastructure and nothing to do with them,&rsquo;&rsquo; Gideon said. Local leaders led by Kanu nominated MCA Charles Kamuren asked Deputy President William Ruto to stop meddling with the region&rsquo;s issues, giving the example of the controversy over where Baringo County University should be located. In his recent tour of the county, Mr Ruto dismissed those agitating for the university to be located at Chemeron and directed Egerton University to move with speed and take over Baringo Technical College despite strong resistance from some local residents led by Baringo Central MP Sammy Mwaita. READ MORE Gideon Moi: Ruto and I are not agents of division Uhuru not a corrupt leader, Moi declares Fallout looms in Mt Kenya over Jubilee Party campaign team &ldquo;We want to inform the Deputy President that this county has its own leaders. Days when force was the order of the day are over,&rsquo;&rsquo; said Kamuren. Mr Joseph Makilab (Barwesa MCA) recounted that President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy at one time served as Kanu chairman and party secretary general respectively and said it was ironical for Ruto to turn his anger on the party whenever he tours the region. &ldquo;We are saying Kanu is the party that made this country to reach where it is at the moment. Those shouting with the loudest voice were politically nurtured by Kanu. Chest-thumping and insults will not take this nation anywhere and must end,&rsquo;&rsquo; said Makilab. While ditching Jubilee for Kanu, Kapropita MCA Solomon Chemjor said his political decision to abandon the Deputy President had everything to do with hiss mode of leadership, warning that many other leaders would follow suit soon. SINGING TUNES &ldquo;Why attack other leaders every time you tour our region, calling them all manner of names and expect us to continue singing to your tunes and cheering. Ruto is the second in command in this country because of former President Daniel arap Moi&rsquo;s fatherly leadership and time has come for him to be boldly told business is unusual,&rdquo; he said. The senator who was in Baringo to raise funds for several women groups also welcomed Sacho MCA Zacharia Kipkuto to Kanu. The MCA was in 2013 elected as an independent candidate. &ldquo;At no time has Gideon told Kenyans not to vote for Uhuru but it is clear that our senator will be President of this republic one day. The question is no longer about if, but when,&rdquo; said Silale MCA Nelson Lotela. Speaker William Kamket warned those interested in taking part in this year&rsquo;s Kimalel Goat Auction to clear last year&rsquo;s debt, claiming leaders including Senator Kipchumba Murkomen went away with farmers&rsquo; goats.