The controversial Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission (TJRC) report is expected to dominate discussions at the State House summit today. Issues of historical land injustices, increasing grabbing of school grounds and contentious land ownership in the country are also expected to take centre stage. In his weekly briefing, State House Spokesperson Manoah Esipisu said implementation of reports on fraudulent land acquisition will be candidly discussed to provide the way forward. Mr Esipisu said resolving the country&#39;s land puzzle was dear to President Uhuru Kenyatta&#39;s administration and the President was keen to use the deliberations to seek solutions to land problems. &quot;As you know the land currency is an important one in our social-economic development, and you are also aware that Jubilee administration promised the land answer if it took office,&quot; Esipisu said. He said Lands Cabinet Secretary Jacob Kaimenyi would provide answers on the Government&#39;s progress in dealing with historical land injustices, implementation of reports on illegal and irregular land allocation. READ MORE Raila calls for speedy, amicable solution to Isiolo-Meru border row Kenya should move beyond mere rhetoric to fight off wanton corruption I am frustrated by corruption, says Uhuru Other issues to be debated include progress in repossessing land irregularly acquired by politicians and churches. Private developers, mostly politicians, and religious organisations have been named as top grabbers of public school land. The summit will also discuss &quot;who owns the largest tracts of land in Kenya&quot;. The land issue has remained contentious and in some instances leading to tribal conflicts in various parts of the country. Esipisu said today&#39;s talks would bring &quot;everything on the table&quot;, but clarified that it was beyond him to preempt if it would prompt Parliamentary discussions on the matter. &quot;We have promised that what we do here is to provide an opportunity to hold robust and candid discussions to ensure that everyone is aware of what the Government is doing about key areas of development. You cannot hold a land submit without talking about it (TJRC report),&quot; he added. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;