President Uhuru Kenyatta Wednesday hit out at the Opposition for waging a propaganda war against the Government. In a thinly-veiled attack on CORD leader Raila Odinga, the President, who enumerated the development projects undertaken under his administration, questioned the opposition leaders&rsquo; development record when they served in Government. He said CORD leaders had nothing to show in terms of development and had resorted to propaganda and insults. &ldquo;Those who wake up and create lies about us are merely seeking popularity and don&rsquo;t have the people&rsquo;s interests at heart. I don&rsquo;t want to mention them but they are known as Lords of Poverty. Their interest is just to be cheered during rallies but when you give them responsibility, they don&rsquo;t deliver,&rdquo; Uhuru said. The President was speaking in Sigor, West Pokot County, when he launched the third phase of the Wei Wei Integrated Development Project. The Head of State and his deputy William Ruto toured parts of West Pokot and Turkana counties to launch various development projects, where they used the occasion to highlight Jubilee achievements in the past four years. READ MORE Graft and insecurity Uhuru's Achilles heel CJ Maraga seeks support from politicians Jubilee to name party officials on Friday Ruto dismissed claims of corruption against the Government and accused CORD of having a penchant for linking key Jubilee government projects to corruption for political mileage. More goodies Uhuru called on the Pokot community that massively supported Kanu in the 2013 General Election to work with Jubilee government, promising to deliver more goodies in place of &ldquo;opposition riddles&rdquo;. He later commissioned the tarmacking of the Cheptongei-Kamitira and Makutano-Konyawo roads. West Pokot Governor Simon Kachapin said he was committed to working with Jubilee government, saying it had massively transformed the county through initiation of water projects, upgrading roads and increasing electricity connectivity. Governors Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet), Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu) and Moses Kasaine (Samburu) who attended the event pledged their support for the Jubilee Government. Also in attendance were Cabinet secretaries Willy Bett (Agriculture), Eugene Wamalwa (Water and Irrigation), Joseph Nkaiserry (Interior Coordination) and Italian High Commissioner Mauro Masoni.