Charles chweya, a father of five, is still digesting the news of the disappearance of their 15-year-old son, Felix, four months ago. Felix, the family&rsquo;s last-born, was a Form One student at Masongo Mixed Secondary in Kisii County.&ldquo;We did everything to make him happy,&rdquo; said Chweya.Felix mother&rsquo;s, Jane Kemunto, said that before Felix disappeared, one of his teachers told her that Felix had been boycotting classes for a week. After dinner, she asked Felix if it was true he had been boycotting classes. He claimed that one of the teachers punished him yet he had not made any mistake. He claimed he had some differences with the teacher.She said Felix woke up early as usual the following day and prepared for school. She wanted to accompany him to school to go and talk to his teacher, but was unable to because she was unwell.&ldquo;That evening, Felix came back home looking unhappy. He went straight to his room, changed into home cloths, took a glass of water and walked away without uttering a word,&rdquo; she said.It was getting late into the night and Felix was nowhere to be seen. But Kemunto was not disturbed because Felix was used to studying with his friends until late at night, sometimes coming back home as late as 10pm.&ldquo;My son never showed up but I had hope that he would get home the following day since he had so many friends around,&rdquo; she said. But she started getting worried after a day passed without her son showing up and started looking for him.&ldquo;At first, I went to his school, talked to his teachers about his changing character and indiscipline,&rdquo; she said.The teachers told her that Felix had started going to school late, hardly did assignments and spoke rudely to teachers and fellow students.She reported her son&rsquo;s disappearance to the area chief. She also asked his best friend about his recent behaviour change, but told her they had never talked about anything beyond class work.After two days, she called her relatives to inform them about the matter and also ask whether they had seen him. They said they had not seen him.Felix&rsquo;s father reported the matter to the police station as they looked for him and making announcements in churches and schools. The family also visited area hospitals and prisons.Kemunto said they have regularly consulted his close friends he was studying with but they say they don&rsquo;t have any information about his whereabouts.&ldquo;As a family, we urge anyone with information or anyone who has come across him anywhere to inform the nearest police station, he said. &ldquo;My son is a young boy in school and as a parent, I am concerned about his safety and his education. We want to mould him and help him face the future as a good member of the society,&rdquo; she said.She noted that as a family, they have forgiven him and they are ready to talk to him politely and also take him for guidance and counselling so that he can change and complete his studies.&ldquo;We are ready to receive you back home as our son, forgive you and forget the past and nurture you and show you parental love. We miss you, son,&rdquo; she pleaded.