Eight high-end hotels joined&nbsp;the top ratings list of classified hospitality facilities published by the industry regulator. City hotels that won a five-star rating are Villa Rosa Kempinsiki, Hemingway&#39;s Nairobi, Sankara, Fairmont the&nbsp; Norfolk, Sarova Stanley, Radisson Blu, Dusit D2 and Tribe Hotel. Four-star facilities include Ole Sereni, Southern Sun Mayfair, Sarova Panafric, Windsor Golf Hotel and County Club, the Boma Nairobi and Weston Hotel. The classification assigns a star rating of between one and five for the hotels, with five-star establishments offering superior services. In the latest report published by the Tourism Regulatory Authority (TRA) on Friday, some popular hotels in Nairobi and Mombasa, including those that have always been cited to have five-star status, have not been classified. Conspicuously missing from the TRA classification of hotels in Nairobi are Serena, Intercontinental and Hilton. Mike Macharia, the Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers (KAHC) chief executive officer, said failure to make it into TRA&rsquo;s roll of classified hotels does not necessarily mean the facilities&rsquo; services are below par. Mr Macharia said there are provisions allowing hoteliers to request for more time, for instance, to undertake renovations, before being classified. Classification and grading of tourism facilities is a mandatory exercise in which all regulated hotels are expected to participate. &ldquo;Nairobi has made studious efforts as far as hotel upgrades is concerned. There are major investments in the hotel industry with many new facilities coming up, hence the many five-star awards,&rsquo;&rsquo; Sam Ikwaye, interim Secretary General of Tourism Professional Association (TPA) said. Only three hotels at the Kenyan coast attained the five-star classification. They are Medina Palms in Watamu (near Malindi), Leopard Beach and Swahili Beach Resort and Spa in the South Coast, Kwale County. A number of establishments, especially at the Kenyan coast had opted to defer classification due to their ongoing upgrade works. These include Mombasa&rsquo;s Pride Inn Paradise Beach and Convention Centre, which is set to host the World Skal Congress in 2018 and the Diani Reef Beach Resort and Spa in South Coast, Kwale county. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;