An audit report indicates that Baringo County may have paid over Sh272 million to ghost workers. The report by Auditor General Edward Ouko indicates that the county paid individuals not captured in the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Database (IPPD) system in 2014-2015 financial year. Mr Ouko noted that Sh272,825,309 could have been made to nonexistent workers or was a result of double payment. In the breakdown of the payment of salaries not in the payroll system, nursery school teachers were paid Sh150.8 million, economic stimulus programmes received Sh17.2 million, employees on contract were paid Sh23.6 million while&nbsp; newly employed health workers received Sh13.7 million. A local contract was paid Sh6.8 million. &ldquo;This creates challenges such as ghost workers or double payment,&rdquo; reads the Auditor General&rsquo;s report. READ MORE Storm over firm given contract to audit Ouko's office DP Ruto cornered as locals demand school bus, roads Parents of girls killed in car crash cry for justice The auditor also questions Sh56m bursary put into an Equity bank account account number 1390262458895 with no records showing how the funds were disbursed to individual and beneficiary institutions. Ouko also questioned the county finance statement covering the 2014/15 financial year, noting questionable pending bills amounting to Sh174 million which the county could not support with any documentation. He also questioned how the county could report pending bills when it closed the year without spending over Sh800 million meant for development. ABANDONED PROJECTS In terms of budgetary performance, the auditor flagged industrialization and trade, tourism, agriculture, lands, education, water as well as gender and sports ministries for wastage of public funds in projects that are either abandoned or unutilised. The auditor raised the red-flag over Sh10.7 million boundary wall built by the county government at Kabarnet stadium on&nbsp; private land. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;