A 43-year-old legal duel between former Attorney General Charles Njonjo and a land-buying company might not end any time soon. The clock is still ticking in the case pitting Njonjo and 2,000 farmers registered under Guchokaniriria Kihato Traders and Farmers Company. The farmers claim ownership of 60,000 acres in Solio Ranch, which stretches from Nyeri to Laikipia County. But the former AG claims the parcel is public land. Mr Njonjo, before High Court Judge Mbogholi Msagha had sought to strike out the case by Guchokaniriria. But the judge dismissed the claim on December 10, 2009, saying the farmers had raised a case that had grounds that could be heard by the court. The judge ordered for full trial. READ MORE No end in sight for Koinange's estate tussle 36 years later New row as farmers lay claim to controversial Sh34m land Respect court order, Kakamega Jamia Mosque clerics plead Aggrieved, the former AG moved to the Court of Appeal complaining that the judge erred by failing to consider that Solio was not available for allotment and allocation to the 2,000 farmers. However, on May 6, 2016, Court of Appeal Judges Hannah Okwengu and Otieno Odek Martha dismissed Njonjo&#39;s arguments and took the case back to the High Court. They noted that only a full hearing would settle the contention between him and the farmers. &quot;We are satisfied there is joinder of various triable issues disclosed in the pleadings; the plaint and defences filed disclose disputed and contested facts whose truth and veracity can only be resolved by way of trial and full hearing,&quot; they ruled. &quot;The appellants ( Njonjo and Solio) submitted that there was no evidence of wrongdoing on the part of the first appellant (Njonjo). Where would the evidence come from without trial and hearing? We fail to see what prejudice the appellants shall suffer if a full trial and hearing is conducted,&quot; the judges said. The farmers claim the contested land was allocated to them by the late President Jomo Kenyatta on March 10, 1973. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;