Controversy has arisen over the integrity of a firm contracted to examine the oversight office accounts. Lawmakers led by Leader of Majority Aden Duale (Garissa Town) rejected the award of an external audit contract to Baker Tilly Meralli on claims of conflict of interest and non-involvement of members of the National Assembly in the approval of the award. According to MPs, the firm has been doing business with the Office of Auditor General (OAG) and concealing key audit information, including the alleged misappropriation of funds such as the alleged irregular purchase of an Audit at a cost of Sh100 million. IRREGULAR LEASING They also cited the alleged irregular leasing and refurbishment of the Auditor General offices in Mombasa and skewed hiring of staff in the office, as some of the issues that have never been reported by the audit firm in its previous engagements with the Edward Ouko&#39;s office. &quot;The company, after being appointed as external auditors of the OAG in 2013, was hired by the management of the OAG in 2013 to undertake a consultancy job that was almost the same as the audit they had been appointed by the National Assembly to do...this is a clear case of conflict of interest,&quot; claimed Duale. READ MORE Muraguri, Mailu close ranks against Afya auditors Leaders call for action after loss of billions in Health Ministry Raila dares Jubilee govt to kick out Auditor General Edward Ouko &quot;...instead of serving the interest of the employer who is the National Assembly, the company has been serving the interest of the auditee, who is the auditor General,&quot; he said. &quot;You cannot be given work to go and audit an organisaiton then you get consultancy work on what you are supposed to audit, they were given work to audit the AG, then they got consultancy in the same office. It would be an insult for the house to be asked to rubber-stamp an auditor general,&quot; said Kimani Ichungwa (Kikuyu), who accused PSC ignoring the House in the award of the tender. &quot;The mandate of appointing the auditor lies with the National Assembly. I think even the Parliamentary service commission (PSC) has taken over the mandate of appointing the auditor. The audit firm that we are being asked to rubberstamp was given work to do, but we have never seen a single report tabled in this House on the work done by the audit firm,&quot; he added. This week, PSC tabled a report in the National Assembly confirming the award of the tender to the firm which has been providing similar services for the last three years. The report said the tender had been awarded and a contract signed on recommendation of the National Assembly Tender Committee.