Court of Appeal Judges have ruled that a plea of guilty cannot be accepted unless it is satisfied that it was entered consciously, freely and in clear and unambiguous terms. Appellate Judges, Justice Philip Waki, Roselyn Nambuye and Patrick Kiage said the heart of a criminal trial is the tendering of evidence by the prosecution in an attempt to establish the charge and not necessarily convicting one upon his own plea of guilty. They said criminal process is designed for forensic investigations and determination of guilt with various rights and safeguards built into it to ensure that only the guilty get to be convicted. Evidence given on oath and tested on trial through the process of cross-examination they stated provided the accused person a chance to confront his accusers and make submissions to the court that s/he is not guilty of the alleged matter. To them the burden of proving the case lied on the prosecution which is expected to prove the charge against an accused person beyond reasonable doubt to have a person convicted. Given all the safeguards available to an accused person through the process of trial, the entry of plea of guilty they said presents a rare absolute agreement. READ MORE Man killed outside US embassy was 'lone wolf' Pro-business Sessions will not go easy on corporate crime: lawyers I will defend devolution, CJ Maraga assures Kenyans Throwing in of a towel by the accused persons and admitting to charges they said is giving of walkover to the prosecution and served a great loss to the accused. &quot;Throwing in of a towel by the accused persons is giving a walkover to the prosecution and serves a great loss&quot; said the judges. They said there was need to ensure accused persons understand the proceedings and in particular the charge one is facing. The court taking plea is required to read and explain to the accused the charge and all its ingredients in a language one understands. A plea of guilt by one arraigned in court should not be plain and ambiguous in order to form a basis for conviction and sentencing. In an appeal presented before them on Thursday November 17, 2016 to determine the fate of a man Elijah Njihia who was sentenced to life imprisonment by a Nyahururu Principal Magistrate&#39;s court after pleading guilty to defiling a 7 year old, the judges said it was disturbing to see how courts handled cases at plea stage. The parts of the courts proceeding read, &quot;The substance of the charge(s) and every element hereof has been stated by the court to the accused in a language that he understands who being asked whether asked whether he admits or denies the truth of the charge, replied in Kiswahili- it is true.&quot; The judges said this seems part of a template used by courts at plea taking hence addressing issue of &#39;charge(s)&#39; instead of a single charge and rather odd &#39;in a language he understands&#39; instead of simply stating the language used. They said the process and stating smacked a mere recital of rituals. In their thinking they saw it a good practice for the specific language used in stating the elements of the charge stated specifically and established by asking the accused person what language he understands and according to his answer using it or ensuring a translator is present to convey the proceedings. Elements of the offense they said are not complete especially if the sentence is severe and mandatory and not brought to the attention of the accused person. To them it served right for one to know the consequences of his trial. In the case of Njihia, it came to light that the process was not followed as after the charge(s) was read to him, the facts were presented and he was conviction immediately passed. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;