Kenyans seeking justice from Parliament could be wondering what happened to their petitions that have not been acted upon for years.&nbsp; Records in the National Assembly showed that the 11th Parliament was sitting on 120 public appeals for help from citizens. In what could raise questions on the weight MPs place on public petitions, the teams are yet to conclude almost half of such requests, some dating as far back as 2013 and 2014. This is in express violation of House Standing Orders which state that public petitions must be concluded within 60 days and reports expeditiously tabled before the National Assembly. REVIEW LOGIC Among the petitions that are likely to have been forgotten by members is one by 15 citizens seeking a reduction of Government&rsquo;s recurrent expenditure and increment of development expenditure; and one by seven prisoners seeking a review of decisions made by judges and magistrates removed from the Judiciary on grounds of integrity. The prisoners wanted Parliament to review the logic of their continued incarceration, yet judges who had pronounced judgement in their cases had been found unfit to serve. READ MORE RESOLVE LEAGUE IMPASSE:SportPesa say they have no problem with expanded league Airlines seek Kenya's approval to launch flights Telkom Orange make league&rsquo;s winning call Parliament is also yet to conclude a petition seeking compensation for victims of the 1998 bomb blast in Nairobi, and one by residents of Kiharu constituency seeking recognition and compensation for former Cabinet minister and pro-democracy campaigner Kenneth Matiba. The two petitions were filed in 2013. According to Standing Orders, people who present such petitions have a right to be informed of the committee&rsquo;s decisions once they are tabled in the House. However, judging from the current backlog, it is possible that people who expected answers in the life of the current Parliament may not get them. &ldquo;Whenever a Petition is committed to a departmental committee, the committee shall, in not more than 60 calendar days from the time of reading the prayer, respond to the petitioner by way of a report addressed to the petitioner or petitioners and laid on the Table of the House... The Clerk shall, within 15 days of the decision of the House, in writing, notify the petitioner of the decision of the House on the petition,&rdquo; the House Standing Orders state. The current Parliament has received a total of 242 petitions. Failure to expedite petitions means that Parliament misses an opportunity to assert itself in a matter of national importance or fails to help a victim access justice. For example, a petition on challenges facing Braille technicians in the country is still pending despite the matter directly affecting thousands of Kenyans who use the equipment.