President Uhuru Kenyatta has warned rogue contractors that they risk being blacklisted if they do substandard work. He said the Government would not compromise on lazy contractors who do not complete work on schedule then end up doing shady jobs. Speaking in Murang&#39;a County after commissioning the Sh4.1 billion 33 kilometer Kangema-Gacharage road in Kiharu Constituency, the president said there is no need for contractors to ask for jobs if they know well they will abandon the work halfway. &quot;It is time contractors uphold high quality workmanship or be blacklisted from carrying out projects in Kenya,&quot; said Uhuru. Uhuru, who was accompanied by Deputy President William Ruto, said delay of construction of roads has undermined efforts to improve the lives of Kenyans and create employment opportunities for the youth. He said the Government is paying special attention on implementation and completion of projects that create direct positive impact on the lives of Kenyans. READ MORE Magufuli: Kenyan 'cowboy contractors' not welcome in Tanzania Local firm gets share of Sh10b deal on back of new law Taita Taveta Contractors clash with county over unpaid cash &quot;There is no need for contractors to ask for jobs if they know well they will abandon the work halfway,&quot; said the President. He said the Government is paying special attention on implementation and completion of projects that create direct positive impact on the lives of Kenyans and would not relent in its commitment to open up interior parts of the country for development. &ldquo;The upgrading and improvement of roads in all parts of our country will spur development and improve economic status of our people,&rdquo; said Uhuru. As part of the mechanism to deal with rogue contractors in the country, Infrastructure Cabinet Secretary James Macharia has already issued a countrywide directive to have all buildings in the country inspected afresh to&nbsp;determine their safety. The directive follows numerous cases of buildings collapsing, killing and injuring others with the latest case being the Sh200 million five storey Ruaka building that had to be evacuated after it started sinking.