The Government is in the spotlight after bodies of 14 people killed by cattle rustlers were left rotting along the Turkana-Baringo border. The decomposing bodies were abandoned in the scorching sun at Puspusion village, more than 24 hours after they were shot dead at around 4pm on Saturday. The crime scene had yesterday become a no-go zone with hundreds of security officers, including members of the Kenya Defence Forces (KDF), remaining in their camps. A 14-year-old who survived the massacre was yesterday rescued by villagers with his right hand shattered by the raiders&#39; bullet and another lodged in his buttocks. Mosop Aitodung, whose three brothers were killed, rode on a donkey for several kilometres before being picked by an Administration Police vehicle. At Chemolingot County Hospital, doctors referred the boy to Kabarnet for specialised treatment and surgery to remove the bullet. READ MORE Bandits kill three at peace meeting at Turkana East Man dies in Mumias as brutal GSU withdrawn from operation Two dead, scores injured in freak accident in Ngoliba, Kilimambogo Violence broke out on Friday at a peace event leading to the death of three people at Lomelo trading centre in Turkana East. The meeting, according to Mosop&#39;s brother Tuwot Aitudung, was aimed at making arrangements on how to surrender 163 goats belonging to members of the Turkana community, which were stolen by Pokot cattle rustlers last week at Suguta Valley. Those killed were Yuka Nyangatiang, Arekai Kidomo and an unidentified woman. From here, the attackers suspected to be from Turkana community proceeded to Puspusion in Silale, Baringo and surrounded three villages. Eight people, a majority of them children, did not survive the attack in which 1,900 cattle and 762 goats were stolen and driven towards Kamuke in Turkana East. The uncollected bodies include those of six brothers - Kachii, Sapan, Kariama, Kukat, Tunot, Lopenyo, Longuan and Achawu. Two other survivors suspected to have been shot and left for dead are believed to be hiding in the Ruguta plains, with political leaders and community elders appealing to the Government to launch a rescue mission. &quot;Anybody disputing this should tell us another place on earth where citizens&#39; bodies are left to rot and be feasted on by wild animals,&quot; said Tuwot. The killings have brought back memories of a similar incident in Nadome village in which more than 100 members of the Pokot community were killed and their bodies left to rot in thickets by the State. Led by Silale Ward MCA Nelson Lotela, community leaders demanded&nbsp; investigations into the conduct of Turkana Kenya Police Reservists (KPR), saying Government firearms were allegedly used in the two attacks. &quot;The stolen animals are already inside Kamuke villages and surrounded by hundreds of Turkana herders and KPR. By yesterday, more than 100 herders from the Pokot community entered Turkana and our appeal to the Government is to swiftly respond to the distress call,&quot; said Lotela. A visit by&nbsp;The Standard&nbsp;confirmed that Kabau, Chesirkon, Chepisya, Puspusion,Loreng, Kapetakener, Apinding and Ashakoyon villages in Tiaty remained deserted, with women and children spotted fleeing from the troubled border. Confirming the raid, Tiaty Sub-County Commissioner Daniel Kurui said the animals were driven to Kamuke but declined to divulge more information to his counterparts on the Turkana side. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;