Dramatic moments were witnessed yesterday when the country&rsquo;s topmost politicians -- President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy, William Ruto -- met with two aspiring Kirinyaga governors, who are also the most recognisable women in the country. Martha Karua, an experienced politician who fell out with President Mwai Kibaki in 2009 after Uhuru was named deputy prime minister, caused a stir when she flatly refused to join Jubilee as had been asked by the President and his deputy during a stop in Kirinyaga County. Later at another stop yesterday, another colourful woman leader and debutant in politics, former Devolution Cabinet Secretary Anne Waiguru, had her awkward moment when DP Ruto, who has in the past berated her in public over the National Youth Service (NYS) scandal, introduced her to the crowd. Ms Karua, who is the Narc leader, last month warmed up to the Uhuru-led Jubilee Party when she announced her candidature for the Kirinyaga gubernatorial seat and that her party would not field a presidential candidate. Ms Waiguru, who was not given a chance to address the crowd, has been at the centre of one of Kenya&#39;s biggest scandals where over Sh1 billion was lost at NYS. The scam has also brought down a number of senior ministry officials and NYS officers. It was drama galore as Karua, known for her strong persona, flatly rejected the calls by the crowd that she joins Jubilee Party by constantly flashing the three-finger salute associated with Narc Kenya. Despite a personal plea from both the President and his deputy, Karua remained steadfast with a strong message of: &quot;I&#39;m going nowhere&quot;. READ MORE Raila attacks Uhuru over Waiguru and Ruto aides Uhuru to Raila: Stop smear campaign President Uhuru&rsquo;s engagement with the UN vital When she was introduced by Ruto to address a that crowd gathered outside Kerugoya Level Four Hospital, Karua was wildly cheered, but the crowd roared Jubilee in unison. At the height of the last General Election, Karua had insisted that the President and his deputy were not eligible to contest as they were suspects at the International Criminal Court, where they were facing crimes against humanity charges that have since been dropped. Narc-Kenya salute Yesterday, her attempts to address the crowd were drowned with shouts of Jubilee! Jubilee! that she just handed back the microphone to Ruto, still waving Narc Kenya&#39;s salute. &quot;I wish to welcome the President and his deputy to Kirinyaga because we know people here love them...&quot; she said as the crowd interrupted her with shouts of &quot;ingia Jubilee! ingia Jubilee! (join Jubilee)&quot;. Even after Ruto told her to read the public mood and move to the &quot;majority side&quot;, Karua still had her hand up and said she was not leaving the flower party. &quot;It is clear that these people like you but you have heard what they are saying. You need to come to Jubilee which will accommodate you, the voice of the people is the voice of God,&quot; Ruto told Karua amid thunderous applause from the large crowd attending the meeting. Ruto said that JP was the unifying factor for the country &quot;that all progressive people should join&quot;. When it was the President&#39;s turn to address the meeting, he implored Karua to join Jubilee, saying he would be humbled working with Karua. &quot;I plead with my sister here, she is a warrior and I have tremendous respect for her, let her come and join us. I&#39;m ready to work with her because even the people have spoken,&quot; Uhuru said. &quot;I respectfully ask her to consider what the people here are saying so that we are in one team. Even me in 2007, I was in the Opposition but I joined in the (President) Kibaki re-election.&quot; Earlier, when Uhuru and Ruto landed at Kerugoya Stadium to start a day-long tour of the county, Karua was among the local leaders that had lined up to welcome them. Speaking to journalists before the two arrived, Karua reiterated her support for Uhuru&#39;s re-election, saying Narc-Kenya Kirinyaga Branch, where she belongs, had resolved to support the Jubilee government. &quot;I have said that my mother branch has resolved to support Kenyatta&#39;s re-election and I support that. As Narc Kenya, we have allowed all our 31 branches to make a choice on who they will support,&quot; she said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;