Donald Trump&#39;s candidature rattled his party members, who kept off his controversial campaign style.Yet still, his brand of politics after the party primaries did not resonate with former party nominees who openly declared their opposition to his candidature. Yesterday, it was reported that former President George W. Bush and his wife, Laura, did not vote for Trump. Instead, they left the presidential and vice presidential bubble blank and voted for other candidates seeking different seats.Shunned by Bush&quot;Mr and Mrs Bush left the top blank and voted Republican down-ballot,&quot; said Freddy Ford, an aide of the former president.But he is not the only Bush family member who didn&#39;t support Trump. His younger brother Jeb Bush also shunned Trump.Bush has also not commented in public on the unusual campaigns mounted by Trump that has been termed as divisive and seeks to promote ethnicity.Bob Dole is the only former Republican nominee who supported Mr Trump&#39;s candidacy.Trump had also picked on former Republican presidential contender John McCain, whom he ridiculed for being captured during the Vietnam war and therefore does not deserve to be called a war hero.Republican Jeff Ryer recalled that even during the party&#39;s primaries, nobody anticipated that Trump would win the party ticket.Style of politics&quot;People have taken the US politics for granted. Trump has gone against tradition. His style of politics is not the conservative one. During the primaries, even the political observers were taken aback,&quot; he said.John Fredricks, campaign chair for the Trump team in Virginia, said some Republicans have not been comfortable with Trump&#39;s brand of politics and that&#39;s why no one wanted to support his candidature.Some of Trump voters yesterday argued that they wanted change and he was the best person suited to do so.&quot;I voted for Trump. The last time we received a pay increase is during the Bush administration. Now only married soldiers get a pay hike. The low ranking do not get anything, they are only entitled to the regular pay,&quot; said Luis Monet, a US soldier.Trump&#39;s unusual campaign style was lauded by some Americans who said he took issues head-on.