Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi has&nbsp;accused the Jubilee government of&nbsp;a witch hunt over claims that he is&nbsp;linked to the loss of Sh51 million in&nbsp;his county. The governor said the State was&nbsp;deliberately trying to link him with&nbsp;the scandal even though he was the&nbsp;one who reported the loss of funds&nbsp;which were unlawfully channeled&nbsp;to the bank accounts of six Nairobi-&nbsp;based firms. Kingi spoke on the day lawyers&nbsp;representing the county moved to&nbsp;court seeking orders to charge directors&nbsp;of the six firms with the theft of&nbsp;public funds. Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi has said he is a victim of hostile propaganda by Jubilee leaders regarding the Sh51 million county theft. The governor also claimed the Government is trying to magnify and falsify the theft to gain credibility in Kilifi and distract attention from mega corruption scandals in the Health ministry and NYS. Lawyers representing the county yesterday moved to court seeking orders to charge directors of six Nairobi-based firms said to have benefited. READ MORE Panel calls off interviews to pick new IEBC boss Protesters storm Kilifi governor's office over theft of Sh51 million Please leave Governor Kingi alone, DP Ruto told The governor has at the same time claimed some government operatives and a group of youths orchestrated an attack on his office to allegedly protest the theft. He is set to meet the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) detectives in Nairobi on Monday to register a complaint. He further denied reports that he has been summoned to record a statement by EACC. &quot;I am the complainant. I have to write a statement because I am the one who reported this matter to EACC. I will record one at the Integrity House on Monday about the theft.&quot; The governor said despite alerting the Central Bank of Kenya, EACC, CID and banking fraud detectives about the theft in October the investigation has taken long to conclude and wondered why no official has been prosecuted. He says the longevity of the probe has enabled the multiplication of rumors and conspiracy theories on a matter that is straight forward. The governor said his administration has been transparent and asked the national government to demonstrate similar faith when confronted with its graft allegations. He also claimed that many politicians have been co-opted to support Jubilee in Coast because they are under corruption investigations. He said when the loss was discovered, he did try to pass buck but instead reported the matter to investigating agencies and suspended the officials whose passwords were allegedly stolen to steal the money through manipulation of the Integrated Financial Management Systems.