Police officers in Central Kenya are living in deplorable conditions as they continue to protect and serve Kenyans. The state of police houses in Nyeri County, for example, is a crying shame, with officers struggling to offer their services. In Muthuthini, Mukurwe-Ini Constituency, the situation is a source of disappointment for the officers at the facility. POLICE POST Locals had called for a police post to be located close to a hospital after several break-ins at the health facility. After a small fund-raiser, the station was built with simple planks of wood but after officers were posted there, no support to improve the structures has been forthcoming. READ MORE President Uhuru starts tour of Central region as residents accuse him of neglect Kenya police housing project audit long overdue Housing Finance Group posts Sh1.2 billion pretax profit One of the officers said the wooden structures were destroyed by termites several years ago and the officers have used iron sheets to put up a roof over their heads. &quot;When it rains, the bedding are soaked, we all live together; young and old,&quot; he noted. Unfortunately, none of them have brought their families to the post because of the living conditions. &quot;How can I bring my wife who has two small children here? There is no privacy, and there is no space, with the walls falling apart and the wind making us fall sick,&quot; he explained. Some officers still live in wooden houses with leaking roofs that are partitioned by curtains and the walls are rotting. During the cold season, the officers stuff the cracks between the wooden planks with newspapers to keep the chilling winds at bay. At Karatina Police Station, an officer said when it rains, he wakes up to find utensils floating around his one-roomed iron-sheet house. The officer said it was even better to spend the night out patrolling the streets than to go to the room he calls home. &quot;I usually try to avoid sleeping here because it is so uncomfortable, it is more of a store for my personal belongings,&quot; he said. At Marua Police Station, officers also live in wooden structures that have no basic amenities. &quot;Water is a problem as well as electricity, but we have no option but to brave the elements,&quot; one officer complained. In Murang&#39;a, police officers have been neglected despite State&#39;s assurance that they will have decent accommodation. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;