Governor Amason Kingi has said he will neither relent nor be sidetracked in his efforts to fight corruption in his county. Kingi said he would be at the Ethics and Anti Corruption Commission (EACC) offices today to pile more pressure on the agency to investigate and bring to book those who stole from the county. Governor Amason Kingi defended his government&#39;s anti-corruption credentials, saying it moved fast to file a complaint with the EACC on the loss of Sh51 million. The governor has been facing increased criticism over his handling of alleged corruption cases in the county, with some critics demanding for his resignation. &quot;It is the county government that made a complaint to EACC to commence investigations on the firms alleged to have received money for supplying nothing, we will not relent until those who stole money meant for Kilifi residents are brought to book and money returned,&quot; said Kingi. Kingi said that he suspended ten officials in his county government implicated in the loss of the millions pending conclusion of investigations. READ MORE Experts: Password holders can only collude to steal funds through IFMIS Revealed: How banks moved Sh6.3b NYS cash It&rsquo;s State&rsquo;s duty to fight graft, say CORD leaders &quot;I felt that the County officials would not investigated while they hold office nor could they be the ones guiding the investigations, bank fraud and cyber crime units to equally take up the matter,&quot; said Kingi. Kingi said the county government was fully aware of the companies that the stolen monies were fraudulently wired to and the names behind those them. &quot;Kilifi County has established that the money went to real human beings, with companies and physical addresses and not to ghosts, I will put pressure on the EACC to ensure that they expedite the matter, we want those who stole to refund the money,&quot; said Kingi. On the Sh308 million Mtwapa plot that the county bought, Kingi explained that valuation reports from both the government and private valuer were sought before the purchase of the land. &quot;National government valuer put the value at sh310m and a private valuer gave it at sh295, so we went ahead and procured the land at sh308 which was between the two valuation reports,&quot; said Kingi. He explained that the money was not transferred to two individuals but to a joint account held by both the lawyers of the vendor and the purchaser as per the sale agreement, &quot;After the land transfer was effected in favor of the county, the money was transferred to the vendor,&quot; said Kingi. Kingi said that how the plot&#39;s seller used his money after selling the land to the county government was none of the devolved unit&#39;s business. &quot;We bought land and paid after proper valuation, how someone spends their money paid for the land later is none of our business,&quot; said Kingi. Kingi said they have filed six civil suits against the companies, their directors and the Banks involved in the sh51million scam.&nbsp; &quot;We have obtained interim orders to freeze the accounts and assets of the companies and their directors. The banks have also been ordered to supply the financial transactions on these companies,&quot; said Kingi.