The Independent Policing Oversight Authority has launched investigations into alleged police brutality during an operation to recover seven stolen firearms in Mumias. The authority wants locals to converge at Christian Growth Church in Shibale Township for official complaint from Wednesday November 30 to Friday December 2. &ldquo;IPOA launched investigations to determine culpability of offending police officers with a view to making appropriate recommendations,&rdquo; said the authority. Members of the public who witnessed or have information of the alleged police brutality should converge at the Church to share the information and to officially lodge complaints. The Independent Medico-Legal Unit says it will ensure accountability and justice for all those who were affected by police brutality in the operation. READ MORE Police accused of rape and beatings over stolen guns in Mumias Big plans for Governor Ruto&rsquo;s return from SA hospital Kakamega woman shot by police still admitted with bullets in leg 2 months later Villagers were beaten up when police descended on villages of Shivale, Koyonzo and Mayoni in search of seven stolen guns. One person died in the operation. IMLU said preliminary investigations indicate the operation was not only brutish, shameless, and careless but one that was conducted outside the confines of the law, leading to the tragic death of one person, sexual assault of women, abuses and injuries to tens of residents, and looting and destruction of private property. &ldquo;Preliminary reports also indicate that some of the victims were being arrested when they went to report their complaints at the Mumias Police Station,&rdquo; said IMLU&rsquo;s Peter Kiama. He said this is in violation of Article 28 on human dignity where every person has inherent dignity and the right to have that dignity respected and protected. Further Article 29 (a) provides that every person has the right to freedom and security, which includes the right not to be deprived of freedom arbitrarily or without just cause. Kiama demanded the immediate interdiction of the officer in-charge of the operation and all other officers in the contingent that was involved. &ldquo;We reiterate that in this particular case command and individual responsibility are primary towards accountability and justice for victims.&rdquo; He told the government to take responsibility for the medical and psychological rehabilitation of all victims and a public apology from the Inspector General to all victims and residents of the three villages for these breaches on their dignity, safety and security. The IG Joseph Boinnet has ordered for expeditious investigations on complaints against any excesses by the police during the operation. &quot;Any member of public, violated or ill-treated in any manner, is asked to lodge official complaint for purposes of investigations. Any police officer found culpable will face severe disciplinary action that includes arraignment in court and dismissal from the service,&quot; said spokesman George Kinoti. The officers were searching the weapons that were stolen from Booker Police Post on November 23.&nbsp; Police have offered a Sh500,000 reward to anyone who can help them with information to recover seven G3 rifles and 140 bullets that were stolen from the post.