AMERICA: Ford Motor Co (F.N), one of Donald Trump&#39;s prime corporate targets on the campaign trail, offered the President-elect a chance to claim a victory late on Thursday by informing him it would not shift production of a Lincoln sport utility vehicle to Mexico from Kentucky. Trump jumped at the chance, claiming in a tweet that he had &quot;worked hard&quot; with Ford Executive Chairman Bill Ford Jr. to keep the plant in Kentucky, even though Ford had never considered moving the whole factory south of the border. In letting Trump claim a victory, Ford made what appeared to be a calculated, public appeal to the next president in an attempt to soothe concerns about outsourcing jobs and to gain some leverage with the new administration as the automaker pushes for favorable policy changes in Congress. &quot;Ford is not going to make a decision on a purely political basis,&quot; said Kristin Dziczek, director of industry, labor and economics at the Center for Automotive Research in Michigan. &quot;They are going to make a decision that makes business sense, economic sense and if it happens to align with political goals, that&#39;s great,&quot; she said. The No. 2 automaker in the United States is not the only company in Trump&#39;s crosshairs working out how to deal with the new political reality in Washington. Apple Inc (AAPL.O), criticized by Trump for not building products in the United States, is studying the possibility of moving iPhone production to the United States, Japanese news service Nikkei reported on Thursday. READ MORE Pro-business Sessions will not go easy on corporate crime: lawyers Trump agrees to pay $25 million to settle Trump University lawsuits Can Trump make coal great again? At least some companies think so Apple did not reply to a request for comment on Friday. JOBS = VOTES Trump campaigned heavily on bringing jobs to the United States and attacking companies such as Ford that plan to take some production overseas, a message that resonated in the economically ravaged center of the country. Ford gave Trump plenty of ammunition, confirming in September that all of its remaining small-car production in the United States, at its facility in Wayne, Michigan, would go to lower-cost Mexico by 2019. Ford Chief Executive Mark Fields said no plants would be closed as a result, and no U.S. jobs would be lost as capacity at the Wayne plant would be taken up by two new models. The Mexico plans remain in place, despite the fact that Trump vowed on the campaign trail to stop Ford opening a new plant in that country and promised to slap 35 percent tariffs on any Ford vehicles made there. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;