CORD leader Raila Odinga emerged from a Luo traditional shrine armed with cultural war regalia and declared that his quest to remove Jubilee Party from power was unstoppable. Dressed in a cow skin, a traditional headgear and armed with a two-headed spear and shield, a confident Raila yesterday assured his supporters across the country that he will put up a strong fight against President Uhuru Kenyatta and deliver victory this time round. Energised by the rare ceremony at the sacred Got Ramogi Hills in Bondo, just a few kilometers from his Opoda home, Raila declared he was ready to do battle for the Presidency. &ldquo;I want to assure opposition supporters and those who want a change of guard in this country that I am more than ready for this political battle,&rdquo; said Raila, under the watchful eyes of the elders. &ldquo;I have received blessings and tools of war that will enable me face the battle with a lot of courage. I will not disappoint you,&rdquo; he said of the two-headed spear, sharpened on two traditional stones. Mumias woes READ MORE Fresh row erupts over ballots printing as setbacks stalk preparations for 2017 elections Apologise now or else... Mutua tells Kalonzo Leaders hit out at Governor Wa Iria as Jamleck unveils county manifesto He also refuted claims that he is responsible for collapse of Mumias Sugar Company. Raila said Jubilee leaders calling for him to explain the whereabouts of the money are merely on a name-smearing campaign. Speaking at Siungu beach in Bondo Sub-county during the closing of a three-day Ramogi Cultural Festival and Reunion, a few hours after he had been installed as a warrior at Got Ramogi, the CORD leader told the government to be responsible of their woes. Jubilee leaders, especially some MPs from the Mumias sugar belt, have claimed Raila owes the mill Sh300 million. But the former Prime Minister maintained that he does not owe the company a single cent and challenged the government to table evidence. He said he will not be cowed by the Jubilee&rsquo;s propaganda to muzzle him over corruption claims in the government. &ldquo;Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto have realised that they have failed in addressing the issues affecting this country and they have instead turned to blaming others,&rdquo; he said. Raila, who is in discussion with his CORD co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula (Ford Kenya) over who among them should fly the opposition ticket, said he now needs the support of all Kenyans &ldquo;who have been demanding for a better country through the ballot.&rdquo; Said the former Prime Minister: &ldquo;This is not a Luo battle and I am calling everyone to walk with me as we go into one of the major political battles.&rdquo; &ldquo;Do not let me walk alone into enemy territory. You have picked me to lead you into this war and with your backing, I storm fearlessly into the enemy lines,&rdquo; he said. Raila said time was ripe for a regime change and asked Kenyans who had not registered as voters to do so as a matter of urgency. &ldquo;Without the voting card, we will not win the war. Let everyone prepare,&rdquo; he said. On Friday evening, Raila addressed a group of youth in Kisumu town, urging them to ensure all those aged 18 and above register as voters. The CORD leader said he will not relent in his war against corruption, saying Kenyans were not getting desired services because of wanton pilferage of state resources through cartels. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;