Just days to the much hyped US presidential elections, the Republicans have exuded confidence that Donald Trump will be the next occupant of the Oval office.With a sizeable number of undecided voters, disgruntled Latinos, Mexicans, African Americans and women following Trump&rsquo;s previous outburst and racial accusations, the Republicans still believe Trump is the best candidate to lead the world&rsquo;s most powerful nation.Going by the lasted polls, which has seen Trump gain popularity in some battleground States like Ohio, against is close rival Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton; his supporters have vowed to rally the voters to vote for him. John Fredricks, acting chairman Trump Campaign Virginia who spoke exclusively to the Standard said that they are confident their candidate will carry the day come Tuesday and it will be with a large margin.&ldquo;Trump will win with a high percent. It will be higher than what former Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney and John McClain got. 50 percent of African Americans will vote for Trump contrary to claims being peddled that he has lost their support,&rdquo; said Fredricks.He continued, &ldquo;He will ensure the rights of the minority are guaranteed. Trump&rsquo;s style of politics is just different and that&rsquo;s why he can&rsquo;t please everybody. It is committed to bring change in American.&rdquo; He explained that Trump is misunderstood because he has indicated he will be more focused on domestic policy as opposed for foreign policies by securing the country&rsquo;s porous borders.&ldquo;We will lead. Rump&rsquo;s vision is for the people especially the minority and not personality issues.&nbsp; Clinton should be indicted as what she did with the secret emails is criminal. She significantly broke the law bad that&rsquo;s why the FBI is probing the second degree emails,&rdquo; said Fredricks.Jeff Ryer, Republican organizer is however not out rightly convinced of a Trump win.&ldquo;I can&rsquo;t say am confident about a Trump win because of the nature of this election. For years people have taken for granted US politics. During the parties&rsquo; primaries even political observers admitted that things did not turn out as expected. I would seriously not bait my money on the election outcome,&rdquo; he said.He continued, &ldquo;I however hope once the elections are done, the pre-election fights between the candidates will not go beyond the November 8th polls.&nbsp; If one of the top candidates is not successful, hope they will accept the results.&rdquo;Fredricks has nevertheless faulted Clinton&rsquo;s policies, questioning why she would want to continue President Barack Obama&rsquo;s programs if they were approved by Americans.&nbsp;&ldquo;Obama policies were a disaster. He claims to increase jobs and improve the economy but this is not the reality. Clinton is the most completed candidate, a pathological liar and only out to continue the Obama presidency for a third term,&rdquo; he alleged.According to Fredricks, Trump&rsquo;s presidency will focus on creating more jobs, improving the economy, withdrawing American troops from wars that are not in favour of America.&ldquo;He is going to influence regime chance. The shipping of American companies overseas for chip labour, on for the end products to be brought back to American market will be stopped. He will sort immigration issues and taxation,&rdquo; he added.But Obama has cautioned the registered voters against a protest vote, saying doing so will be electing Trump. He Republican nominee has now reached out to his supporters to elect him and have the numbers in the Congress.&quot;Finally we will bring change with the majority in the congress to restore the broken system,&quot; he said.&nbsp;(Roselyne is participating in a 2016 U.S General Elections Embed program administered by the International Center for Journalists (ICFJ) and sponsored by the US State Department&#39;s Foreign Press Centers and US Embassy Posts)