The Cabinet Secretary in the Ministry of Transport, Infrastructure, Housing &amp; Urban Development James Macharia (right) &nbsp;is taken through the features of the Resolution Ziara Plan by Resolution Insurance Group CEO Peter Nduati (left) during the launch of an accident emergency medical cover for commuters in Public Service Vehicles (PSV). Looking on is Matatu Owners Association Chairman Simon Kimutai.NAIROBI, KENYA: Resolution Insurance has launched an affordable accident emergency medical cover for commuters in Public Service Vehicles (PSV). &nbsp; Resolution Ziara Plan targets the majority of the population in Kenya, who do not have any form of insurance and have found it difficult to access quality and responsive healthcare solutions in the event of road traffic accident. The cover will go for Shs. 70 and will be sold at designated PSV terminus.&ldquo;Only one out of 14 people in Kenya have any form of insurance. If you break down the numbers further, you realise that even fewer people have medical insurance. The Resolution Ziara Plan is an innovative approach to ensure that commuters are able to access quality medical care in the unfortunate event of a road accident,&rdquo; said Peter Nduati, Group CEO, Resolution Group.Speaking during the Annual Matatu Owners Association Delegate&rsquo;s Conference he said, &ldquo;Many families are forced to turn to their savings whenever a relative is involved in an accident. This relatable situation can however be avoided with affordable insurance propositions that cater for vulnerable sections of the population such as PSV passengers.&rdquo;Upon purchase of the cover, customers will receive a wrist band which has a unique serial number. The serial number is activated by making payment through mobile money service such as M-PESA.The cover takes care of accidental emergency medical treatment including ambulance services up to Shs. 150,000 and a Last Expense Benefit of Shs. 30,000. It is valid for 24 hours and the emergency admission will be catered for up to 48 hours or upon exhaustion of the limit.According to the National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA) the number of road accidents increased to 2,988 last year from 2,803 registered in 2014 &ndash; thus placing Kenya among countries with the highest number of road crashes globally.In 2011, the World Health Organization (WHO) estimated that Kenya losses an average of USD4 billion annually due to road traffic fatalities with the majority of the cases affecting the most productive segment of the population.&nbsp;