A fresh political battle is looming in Kisii and Nyamira counties as ODM marshals its troops to stop Jubilee&#39;s fresh onslaught. Two weeks after Jubilee Party unveiled a presidential campaign team for the two Gusii counties and swore to turn the region into a Jubilee zone, the Orange party is fighting to lock them out of the region where CORD leader Raila Odinga beat President Uhuru Kenyatta in the 2013 elections. Buoyed by victory in recent Nyacheki Ward by-election and a successful move to woo back MPs Richard Onyonka and Simon Ogari who had crossed over to Jubilee, ODM is laying strategies to tighten its grip on the region. Already, the Jubilee team, led by former Chairman of the Commission for the Implementation of the Constitution (CIC) Charles Nyachae, has hit the ground running. Assisting Nyachae are former Assistant Minister and ODM nominated MP for East Africa Legislative Assembly Joseph Kiangoi and Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi. Kiangoi exuded confidence, saying the Jubilee team was sure of turning tables on ODM. &quot;Jubilee is the party to beat in Gusii land. My strong belief is that people benefit more when they support the Government of the day. I supported ODM hopping they will form the government, but I don&#39;t want to take chances by not guiding our people to Jubilee,&quot; said Kiangoi, who is eyeing the Nyamira senatorial seat. READ MORE IEBC best suited to manage party nominations Governor Ruto: We have nothing to show from Jubilee Kenya government should fund party nominations In the 2013 elections, Raila got 95,596 votes (66 per cent) of the vote in Nyamira against President Kenyatta&#39;s 54,071. In Kisii, Raila had 236,831 ( 68 per cent) against Uhuru&#39;s 95,596. Early this year, Kiangoi led a delegation of more than 3,000 people to Deputy President William Ruto&#39;s Eldoret home, a move that announced his exit from the opposition. Prior to declaring war against the opposition, he held several meetings with President Kenyatta at State House. Kiangoi will lead Jubilee campaigns in Nyamira alongside County Assembly Speaker Joash Nyamoko, aspiring Woman Representative Jerusha Momanyi and aspiring Governor Enrneo Nyakiba. Nyamoko is eyeing the North Mugirango parliamentary seat against youthful incumbent Charles Geni, who is also the constituency ODM chairman. Mr Geni and ODM National Treasurer Timothy Bosire are CORD&#39;s leading lights in the county. &quot;We will not be swayed by Jubilee&#39;s false promises to the people of Gusii. All the individuals they have appointed as their campaign leaders have not been mandated by the people. We defeated them in 2013 and we will repeat the same in 2017,&quot; said Geni. ODM insists its support in Gusii is not at stake. &quot;The opposition will remain strong and steadfast in Gusii,&quot; said Bosire. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;