There was commotion at a textile factory after two legislators demanded to know why armed officers were deployed to supervise employees. The MPs, Samuel Arama (Nakuru West) and David Gikaria (Nakuru Town East), stormed Bedi Fabrics Factory located in Shabaab estate after receiving numerous complaints of harassment by employees. The employees had staged a peaceful demonstration demanding an audience with the managers, whom they accused of failing to address issues affecting their work environment. According to the employees, Administration Police officer George Thiong&rsquo;o, whom The Standard found on the premises, has been deployed to the factory. &nbsp;Always armed They accused him of harassing and intimidating them while they were on duty. READ MORE MCAs&rsquo; report says most ECDE projects poorly done Agony of disabled 4 turned away by State facilities in Nakuru County Help us find our missing young son They said the officer was always armed with a gun and had on several occasions beat up employees who did not comply with harsh working conditions. &ldquo;Employees are afraid because there is a policeman here who is always armed and whenever someone raises a concern, he beats them and takes them to the police station,&rdquo; said Wycliffe Kusunyo, the branch secretary of Textile and Workers Union. When the MPs stormed the premises, they found the armed police officer dressed in civilian clothes. The officer also had handcuffs and teargas canisters. Mr Gikaria demanded to know what his role at the factory was. The policeman maintained that senior police officers on the premises knew him and understood his role at the factory. Mr Thiong&rsquo;o was referring to police inspectors Augustine Kisamba, Kamito Comrad and Robert Kireru. &ldquo;We want this officer to introduce himself and tell us who assigned him here and what his responsibilities are because he might be an imposter. It is also surprising that he is in civilian clothes,&rdquo; said Gikaria. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;