Two passengers died and scores of others injured after a head-on collision between a mini-bus and a truck on the Thika-Garissa Road at Ngoliba in Kilimambogo. The accident, which occurred at dawn is said to have occurred when the driver of one bus attempted to overtake another bus before it collided head-on with an oncoming lorry that was heading towards Matuu from Nairobi. Two passengers died on the spot. The driver of the truck sustained serious injuries and was among those rushed to Thika Level 5 Hospital. According to a survivor Moses Liuka, the bus they were travelling in was being driven at high speed.&nbsp; Mr Liuka said as the driver was in the process of overtaking the other&nbsp;bus, he crashed into an oncoming truck whose driver refused to give way even after the bus driver tried to persuade him to do so after realising the looming danger. &nbsp;&quot;We had tried on numerous occasions to raise our concerns in the manner the bus was being driven at high speed but our pleas fell on deaf ears. The main cause of this accident was overspeeding by our driver,&quot; he said. READ MORE Twelve bodies found in southwestern Mexico At least 40 dead in China construction accident Nyando police looking for man who hacked father to death He claimed that the buses plying that route had a history of careless driving with majority of them being operated without speed governors.The driver of the ill-fated bus ran away immediately after the accident occurred. Geoffrey Mutua, the bus conductor, said the bus was heading to Nairobi from Tseikuru with about 37 passengers on board. Survivors were rushed to the nearby Ngoliba Dispensary but later transferred to Thika Level 5 Hospital for specialised treatment. A doctor at the hospital said only one passenger was in critical condition with the others being stable. &quot;We are currently stabilising the patients and carrying out the x-rays to ascertain those with fractures. We are also planning to conduct surgery to those with serious injuries,&quot; said Dr William Omondi, the Medical Officer in charge. The doctor assured friends and relatives who had flocked the hospital that the facility was well equipped to offer the survivors quality medical care. A police officer who declined to be named since he is not allowed to talk to the media said they were in hot pursuit of the driver of the ill-fated bus. &quot;It is just a matter of time before we get him. He is likely to be charged with careless driving and causing death of innocent passengers,&quot; said the police officer.