A form four Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education candidate at a local secondary school in Bungoma County is dead. The deceased a student of St Joseph High School Nalondo Girls in Kabuchai constituency died after she allegedly fell from her double Decker bed as she prepared to sleep on Thursday evening. It is alleged that the candidate had revised for the Friday paper but slipped from her bed and broke her spinal cord. Bungoma Central OCPD Joseph Mwenje confirmed the incident adding that the girl was rushed to Bokoli health centre and efforts by medical staff to resuscitate her failed and she was pronounced dead on Friday morning. &quot;The deceased is alleged to have died after breaking her spinal Cord after she fell from her bed, we have launched our investigations to ascertain if there was foul play and we will release our results soon,&quot; said the police boss. READ MORE Kisii house death toll up as owner alleges foul play Armed gang rapes candidate on her way to sit KCSE exams Anomalies emerge in KCSE examination Meanwhile a sombre mood engulfed Nalondo market in Kabuchai constituency after the family members and neighbours received the news of the demise of their daughter. The deceased father Wycliffe Fulano and her mother Christine Simiyu said that the post mortem and the doctor&#39;s report from Bungoma County Referral Hospital had shown that their daughter had succumbed from spinal cord injuries. &quot;The death of our daughter is so sudden but we don&#39;t want to engage in speculation since the post-mortem report has shown that she died of spinal cord injuries,&quot; the father said. Jimmy Wanjala, the deceased elder brother said that death had robbed them of their sister who the family had invested in heavily and were expecting her to pass with flying colours so that she could save the family from the jaws of poverty. Maeni Ward MCA Florence Wekesa who is also the deceased aunt said that the family had lost a child with a bright future adding that they will not allow blame games since the post-mortem report had clearly indicated the main cause of death. Bungoma County director of education Charles Anyika said that it was a blow to the teaching fraternity, parents and students following the death. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;