&nbsp; {Photo:Courtesy} Washington:It will be a new day at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission after President-elect Donald Trump installs his choice to run the agency. With Trump&#39;s transition team already in regulatory-relief mode and promising to revamp the Dodd-Frank financial reform legislation, some rules already are marked for death or dialback. Expected on the chopping block soon after Trump takes the oath of office is a proposal that would require companies to disclose pay ratios between their CEOs and employees. Another would require companies to disclose whether their products contain conflict minerals -- minerals that were mined in a war-torn region of Africa. Dead for now is any prospect of the SEC approving a tough fiduciary rule for financial advisers, say policy experts. Trump&#39;s decision to tap former Republican SEC Commissioner Paul Atkins to help manage the Trump team&#39;s transition efforts at the SEC and other financial agencies offers a window into some other changes that could be in store. Atkins, the founder of the regulatory consulting firm Patomak Global Partners, is viewed by some to be a top contender for the position of SEC chairman itself, though as the transition head he could also recommend someone else for that job. READ MORE Impact of Trump's reign on Africa Overcapacity, competition to weigh on U.S. airfares in 2017 Short list of potential Trump administration picks Atkins&#39; well-known conservative views on everything from enforcement penalties to corporate governance are likely to be reflected in the SEC&#39;s agenda. Here are five policy areas likely to change. &nbsp; CORPORATE AUDITING RULES COULD GET LOOSER Paul Atkins was a staunch critic of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB), a body created after the Enron accounting scandal to police and write new rules for corporate auditors. Atkins raised concerns about the board&#39;s budget and high salaries, and advocated against prescriptive accounting rules that he felt constrained auditors from making professional judgments. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 4 Next &raquo;