Deputy President William Ruto has asked CORD leader Raila Odinga to account for money lost to corruption in some counties. Speaking in Kuresoi, Nakuru County yesterday, the DP said Raila knows where the more than Sh1 billion lost in some counties went to and should take responsibility. He said the Opposition chief cannot deny knowledge of the loss of money after admitting his plane ticket and accommodation were paid for. &quot;Kama umekubali ulilipiwa pesa ya hoteli na tikiti ya ndege na shilingi bilioni moja ilipotea, huwezi tudangaya haujui&nbsp;(If you have owned up that your accommodation and air ticket was paid for and almost Sh1b was lost, do not fool us, where is the rest of the money?)&quot; he posed. Mr Ruto called on anti-corruption agencies to swing into action and arrest and prosecute anyone linked to corruption. He said the agencies should not fear anyone linked to the vice, whether they are in Jubilee or CORD, working for national government or county government. READ MORE Don't play politics with graft war in kenya Kajwang' was my informant, Raila reveals Sirma now supports DP Ruto, wants back his Eldama Ravine seat &quot;Those mandated with dealing with corruption and safeguarding public money must prosecute individuals mentioned in corrupt dealings. It should not matter the status of those involved, what party they belong and level of government they work for. They must be arrested and prosecuted,&quot; he said. Over the last week, Raila and the Jubilee administration have been trading accusations over graft, especially after over Sh50m was reportedly lost in Kilifi County. Jubilee leaders have accused Raila of applying double standards, only demanding action when public officers affiliated to the ruling coalition are implicated, but silent when those in CORD counties are mentioned. Raila defended Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi over graft allegations in his county and commended him for swift action. &nbsp;Blame opposition He said the Jubilee government was in charge of the police, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and anti-corruption agency and thus should take action on those implicated instead of blaming the Opposition. &quot;The loss of money in Kilifi is pure theft. The money was wired through Central Bank. The directors of those companies are known and the persons are known. What else do you want the Opposition to do?&quot; posed Raila, on the accusations that he was being hypocritical and selective on the fight against graft. Ruto yesterday said Raila had perfected the art of portraying Jubilee as corrupt and should stop fooling Kenyans. &quot;They have been trying to portray that corruption in Jubilee is different from that in CORD. He should stop taking Kenyans for fools,&quot; he said. Meanwhile, the DP has said the appointment of electoral body chiefs will not affect preparations for next year&#39;s elections. Speaking at the Kaaga Methodist Church in Imenti North yesterday, Ruto allayed fears that the appointment of new IEBC commissioners might result in the postponement of next year&#39;s elections. He asked those spreading propaganda that next year&#39;s elections will be delayed to stop misleading Kenyans. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;