The principal of Melania Trump&rsquo;s old primary school knows juvenile behaviour when she sees it. And she has some advice for the candidate who once described his own campaign as &ldquo;a little childish&rdquo;. &ldquo;Melania is very wise,&rdquo; Mirjana Jelancic says. &ldquo;Donald should listen to her more.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s a common refrain in Sevnica, a quiet industrial town of 5,000 nestled in a lush tree-lined valley on the banks of the Sava river in central Slovenia. Melania Trump, then known as Melanija Knauss, grew up in Yugoslavia in the 1970s and &lsquo;80s. Those who knew Melanija Knauss as a child are proud that the soft-spoken hometown girl could soon be First Lady of the United States. And they&rsquo;re reluctant to publicly criticise Donald Trump, despite their concerns over recent allegations about his behaviour towards women. READ MORE Why Hillary Clinton lost to Trump News media yet again caught flat-footed as they misread America's complex political pulse Kenya shilling holds firm as analysts predict stability Melania, now US First Lady in waiting, was born in 1970 in what was then communist Yugoslavia, the daughter of textile worker Amalija and car salesman Viktor, who friends say bears a striking resemblance to her husband. &ldquo;She was always very sophisticated, extremely well brought up in a very traditional way,&rdquo; recalls Jelancic, her former classmate and neighbour. &ldquo;In that respect she was different from us.&rdquo; If Donald was something of a troublemaker in his younger days, Melania was the opposite - a reserved and diplomatic presence on the playground outside the modest concrete apartment where she grew up. &ldquo;She was well spoken, she never swore if there were arguments between us,&rdquo; says Jelancic. &ldquo;She always mediated, forged a compromise and unified us again.&rdquo; In their grade school days, the girls would knit gloves, sweaters and leg warmers as they flipped through the fashion magazines that inspired Melania from an early age. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 4 Next &raquo;