President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s party yesterday held a retreat to iron out key issues as it prepares for the next General Election. Among the issues discussed at the meeting were the credibility of the looming nominations and strategies to steady the party in the face of discontent from members who were left out of campaign teams set up by the President and his deputy William Ruto two weeks ago. To assure its members of free and fair nominations, the party has formally requested the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to supervise its party primaries to stem any fall-outs. &ldquo;The secretariat has written to the IEBC to understand the requirements needed to carry out the exercise,&rdquo; Head of Secretariat Raphael Tuju told journalists yesterday at Elementaita Country Lodge, where he chaired the meeting. FIRM STAND It was the first meeting for the new team that will manage the party&rsquo;s affairs up to the next General Election. READ MORE Makonde now sever all links with Mozambique Trader's entry into Kiambu governor race a game changer Raila in fresh bid to reclaim Rift Valley support, endorses Kimaiyo &ldquo;As the President and his deputy have reiterated before, none will interfere with the nominations. The exercise will be carried out by IEBC and the presidential campaign team will have no role to play,&rdquo; said Mr Tuju. &ldquo;We were discussing our roadmap. We have also decided to take a firm stand towards ensuring that our aspirants are fully informed of our activities and none of our members should be left behind. We are working around those strategies,&rdquo; said the party&rsquo;s acting Secretary General Veronica Maina. She added that the party&rsquo;s National Election Board will be tasked with dealing with party nominations, including nomination fees for candidates. &ldquo;We are forming the National Election Board and will be making information on nomination fee public by the third week of November,&rdquo; she said. The retreat marks the first step in the new party&rsquo;s bid to put its house in order in the run-up to the next election. Mr Kenyatta&rsquo;s re-election vehicle has run into unexpected headwinds, with concerned politicians faulting him and Ruto for including aspiring candidates in their re-election team, saying that would give them undue advantage during nominations. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;