Police killed four suspected terrorists and recovered four AK-47 rifles with 90 bullets Saturday night, averting a planned attack on El-Wak police station in Mandera County. Four AK 47 rifles with 90 bullets, four magazines for AK-47 rifles, five mobile phones, one pocket phone, Somali Army jungle jackets, and two 3-liter capacity jerry cans were recovered during the incident. North Eastern regional coordinator Mohamud Saleh said the slain men were members of Al-Qaeda affiliated Al-Shabaab terror group. &ldquo;Our officers pre-emptied a planned attack on police station and other installations and made good recoveries. The operations is ongoing,&rdquo; he said. According to police, the gang was planning to fire rocket-propelled grenades on the camps then steal ammunition, weapons, and police vehicles. The team tracked the terrorists to Kobolo area near Falama where they engaged the group of 20 in a fierce exchange of fire. READ MORE Leaders ask Nkaissery to lift dusk-to-dawn Mandera curfew Government to use sh600 million to buy livestock from Mandera pastoralists Mandera residents urged to give information to police &ldquo;Police overpowered the militants who had machine guns and rocket propelled grenade launchers forcing them to escape,&rdquo; Saleh said. In July 2016, the Al-Shabaab attacked Diff Police Station in Wajir South and escaped with a police vehicle, 13 bullets and other arsenals. Diff police station suffered a similar raid in April this year when three officers were wounded and a police vehicle stolen. Officials said around 100 al-Shabaab fighters were also involved in that raid. The terrorists have been calling for withdrawal of Kenya Defence Forces troops from Somalia. The troops who are under the Africa Union Mission in Somalia (Amisom) have captured several towns that were under the terror group as part of efforts to liberate the country. In the process, dozens of suspected militants have been killed and others injured. More than a dozen troops have also been killed in the operations. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;