The Orange Democratic Movement vetting process is meant to separate the loyalists from moles and joyriders. Judith Pareno, the ODM Elections Board chairperson said the exercise, which ends on November 30, was meant to weed out members who only want to use the party&rsquo;s popularity to achieve their selfish political ambitions, then abandon it later. She said the vetting parameters include proof of loyalty, credibility and support to the party and its ideals. Many prospective party candidates are not sure whether they will pass these stringent tests. A part of its culture, ODM will also require each member to declare what they had done to advance the party&rsquo;s interest.&nbsp; For example, one of the rules aspirants must meet is that they must have been actively involved in the party affairs six months prior to submitting their nomination papers. READ MORE 300 Jubilee aspirants express fear of skewed party primaries Jubilee to appoint county campaign officials in two weeks Deputy Governor Kiala daughter found after kidnap claims Aspirants must also have cleared all their monthly membership contributions. Pareno has assured the aspirants that the exercise will be free and fair. &ldquo;There is nothing to fear. I can assure you that the exercise will be free and fair,&rdquo; she said. John Mbadi, the ODM chairman said that the exercise will be conducted by the National Elections Board and not branch party officials. News of the vetting is sending jitters across the ODM ranks with many of the incumbent governors, senators, MPs and MCAs fearing that they may be locked out for various reasons. Among the jittery are those facing off with known ODM stalwarts who have immense influence in the party. &ldquo;Do you expect those vying against known party operatives like Prof Anyang&rsquo; Nyong&rsquo;o, James Orengo, John Mbadi, Junet Mohammed, Oburu Oginga, Timothy Bosire&nbsp; and Opiyo Wandayi to sit&nbsp; pretty as they wait for loyalty tests. Their fears are real,&rdquo; pointed out an MP who sought anonymity. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;