MPs have threatened to block renewal of leases for huge tracts of agricultural land owned by wealthy elite and multinationals. They expressed anger that the Government had failed to include ordinary citizens in lease renewals and now want Parliament to intervene in the matter. A petition by Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter wants Parliament to issue directions on the issue, including establishing the status of various parcels of land currently owned by multinationals in agriculturally rich areas where wealthy landowners have been reaping billions of shillings in profits over the years. COMMUNITY EVICTED &ldquo;In 1895, the colonial administration allegedly evicted the Nandi community from the ancestral land, currently occupied by multinational tea companies... the new Constitution brought along major changes to land ownership, where it reduced the leases from 999 years to 99 years. Consequently, all 999 years leases have lapsed,&rdquo; said Keter in his petition. &ldquo;The Government should embrace public participation as stipulated in the constitution during consideration of renewal of the leases,&rdquo; he said. READ MORE Raila Odinga tears into Jubilee over land problems in Coast English former players allege sex abuse NLC says Pandya hospital grabbed section of school land MPs said the problem on land leases affects all Kenyans. &ldquo;At the Coast, leases that expired were renewed without consulting the people. It is good for the Government to include communities,&rdquo; said Andrew Mwadime (Mwatate). &ldquo;Counties from the Coast, Eastern, Rift Valley were taken by white settlers. People were sent to concentration camps. If this problem is not addressed, it will present a very big problem in future,&rdquo; said Julius Melly (Tinderet). Separately, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Kenya Land Alliance Odenda Lumumba claimed the issue of land lease renewals was controversial mainly due to the secretive nature it is being handled by the Government. &ldquo;In some of these cases, you find that land has already exchanged hands and only the ministry can provide those details. The details behind the lease terms and conditions are not known...there are lots of vested interests in the whole issue. However, from the questions being asked by the people, it shows something is amiss,&rdquo; said Mr Lumumba. He claimed in Nairobi, the only evidence that some leases may have been renewed are the numerous high-rise buildings coming up every day. DEBATED RENEWED The interest by Parliament rekindles the land lease renewal debate that has taken a controversial dimension in the past few years, with claims of secrecy in identifying parcels of land whose leases have expired. The problem also includes large cities such as Nairobi where land experts decry lack of openness in lease renewals. Among the parcels of land targeted by the petition currently in Parliament are Kipkeibon, Kipkeikei, Kapsumbeywo, Chemoni, Savani, Septon, Kibwari, Nandi, Siret, Kipchamo, Kipkoimet, Kapchorwa, Kaboswa, Kibobet, Tinderet and Kalyet tea estates. The tea estates occupy over 40,000 acres in Nandi Hills and Tinderet constituencies. The tea estates have allegedly not benefited the communities, leading to resentment among the locals, who claim the lands were forcefully taken from their forefathers. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;