When I was a practicing oncologist, I used to make people feel sick. That may sound a little unusual, surely a doctor is supposed to make their patients better. Of course, I was trying to make them better - it&rsquo;s just that I was a cancer doctor and the treatments we used had some terrible side effects like vomiting, hair loss, and weakened immune systems. Then I got to work on developing drugs that reduced those harmful side effects by targeting mainly cancerous cells and leaving healthy cells alone. This type of bespoke treatment became known as precision medicine. Instead of a one-size-fits-all approach, it reflected a vision to use the right treatment, for the right patient, at the right time. Now, as head of the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation, my focus has moved from individual patients to entire populations. Our vision is a world where every person has the chance to lead a healthy, productive life. So I have been asking myself whether we can take the principles of precision medicine a step further. Can we get the right interventions, to the right populations, in the right places, at the right time? I call this concept precision public health. And I believe it can help overcome some of the biggest health challenges facing Africa with its large genetic and geographical diversity across multiple cultural and ethnic groups. Precision public health works by gathering and analysing as much data as possible about all the factors that determine the health and wellbeing of a population or a community. READ MORE Woman to pay former husband Sh127, 000 for exposing him to risk of HIV/AIDS HIV patients abandon drugs in painful wait for fate as biting drought ravages families Study shows four youths contract HIV every hour That means finding out about not just people&rsquo;s physical characteristics but also their physical environments. Why is a disease more devastating in one country, or one area of a country, than another? Why are more babies dying in one place than somewhere else? With answers to these and other questions, we can target limited resources where they will be most effective. On a recent visit to Ethiopia, I met African scientists and public health professionals to learn more about the way precision public health is already starting to improve lives in Africa. For example, I heard how more work is going into understanding how different populations are more susceptible to certain diseases &ndash; and how they respond differently to the same drugs. One fascinating study that was highlighted, showed how patients in Zimbabwe might benefit more from lower doses of HIV treatment than standard guidelines advise. I was also encouraged to learn how a precision approach would help tackle hereditary neurological disorders, which show up differently in different populations - and how there is the potential to improve tuberculosis treatment since generic approaches persist in Africa even though they are failing many patients due to widespread drug resistance. Precision approaches are already having a big impact. For example, treatment that reduces the risk of pregnant women with HIV passing the virus to their babies is focused on certain regions in Sub-Saharan Africa, where incidence is most prevalent. This approach has cut HIV transmission from mother to child by almost half in five years. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;