Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka&#39;s telling off of his longtime ally, Senator Johnstone Muthama, continues to generate debate within Wiper Party. A number of leaders felt the Machakos senator, who got a public dressing-down from his party boss on Friday, had it coming and that Kalonzo did well to assert his authority and forestall further divisions in the party. Mr Muthama provoked the party leader&#39;s wrath when he attacked Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana saying he needed to fold his Muungano Party and join Wiper or be consigned to political oblivion. The Senator likened Prof Kibwana&#39;s Muungano to the Maendeleo Chap Chap movement founded by Machakos Governor Alfed Mutua. But his words did not go down well with his party boss. When he stood to speak, a visibly upset Kalonzo cautioned Muthama against triggering division during Wiper rallies. &quot;Don&#39;t create more divisions on my trip because we have come to unite the people. It is true we all want to be in one party but you can&#39;t do it by insulting or intimidating others,&quot; Kalonzo said. READ MORE Kalonzo allies say there's no fallout in Wiper ODM senator endorses Kalonzo for CORD presidential ticket Kalonzo, Muthama clash at rally as Kamba unity comes into sharp focus The incident happened during a road show at Sultan Hamud market aimed at popularising Kalonzo&#39;s presidential bid in the 2017 elections. Kalonzo defended Kibwana, saying Muungano Party should not be compared to the Chap Chap movement. He said he would not tolerate divisive politics on his home turf. &quot;As the party leader, I have the final word and I am the only one carrying the vision of Wiper Party,&quot; he said. Kalonzo&#39;s open rebuke of one of his trusted lieutenants caught the senator by surprise. He stormed out of the rally and has been uncharacteristically quiet since. He has also missed subsequent rallies held in Emali, Mtito Andei, Voi and Taita Taveta. Commenting on the incident, East Africa Legislative Assembly MP Peter Mathuki said Kalonzo was only giving direction as the party leader. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;