Poll officials reassured Americans on the credibility of the vote as they trooped to polling stations to elect President Barack Obama&#39;s successor.On the back of vote-rigging claims by Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, officials explained they had prepared adequately and deployed new equipment in some polling stations.A spot check on election preparedness in Virginia State, which had 2,241 polling stations with 133 city or county electoral bodies, reporters established that the polling centres were being manned by chief electoral officers while the city electoral office was under chief registrar. &quot;The voting started at exactly 6am and ends at 7pm. I can confirm that we were adequately prepared for these elections,&quot; said Commissioner of the State Election Department Edgardo Cortes.He continued: &quot;We began these preparations more than a year ago. We even got new equipment for some polling centres. We had trained polling officials on how to deal with polling issues.&quot;He said the eligible voters&#39; details were being verified against a poll book. Voters were required to produce a driving license, passport, student ID, job ID and free ID at the voting places.CORRECT DETAILS&quot;We match all the details to ensure they are correct before one is allowed to vote. It is just a requirement to confirm the person voting has the acceptable document,&quot; said Cortes when he spoke to media at his office in Richmond, the capital of Virginia State.The results will only be posted on the official website once electoral officials have checked and verified the total votes cast and the number of people who turned up at the polling place.&quot;We also check on spoilt votes against the number of ballot got and cast,&quot; he explained.He continued: &quot;This is a form of audit done. We then post results by the local electoral office. The State system electoral management office post the result online. These are unofficial results and the 133 electoral bodies will have to canvas them within a week.&quot;This means by end of the voting and results posted, the media can project the election outcome. However, these are not the official results.&quot;They will review and check on all the ballots cast. The 133 city electoral bodies will then review after a week and on the 21st of this month, the result will be tabled before the State electoral board for ratification. The provisional results will also be decided by the local boards,&quot; he said.Although presidential election was held in each of the 50 States, save for Washington DC, there were other special seats up for contest like the Congress House of Representatives and senators.In other States, the electorate were also voting for various constitutional amendments.The voting began at 6am at polling centres and closed at 7pm. However those still on the queue at the time of deadline were allowed to cast their ballots.Election officials had reassured of a smooth exercise devoid of voter fraud and intimidation amid fears of possible &#39;rigging&#39; as claimed by Trump.There were also fears of a possible Russia cyber-attack to interfere with the election results.However, like in Virginia, the State Election Department downplayed any probability of that occurrence saying the process was not electronic.Contrary to Kenya&#39;s electoral process where the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission officials relay results at the polling and county tallying centres while the presidential is tabulated at the national tallying centre and announced by the chair of the commission, all results in the US local polling centres will be posted online.&quot;At the end of the voting exercise, unofficial results will be posted in the cities&#39; or counties&#39; websites. We are open and the results will be update after every 10 minutes,&quot; he stated.He explained:&quot;For the provisional results where the marking are not clear, the machine is sealed properly by the local office and transported to the city or county centre for review and verification. The ballot box is accompanied by a statement of results.&quot;On the issue of election fraud, the commissioner said they review the voter register every month.Also, the electoral system is fool-proof since the Electoral Assistance Commission sets the standard for all States to ensure the outcome are credible and reflect the will of the people.&quot;The electoral bodies undertake checks and balances. The equipment are tamper-proof. We have also put security measures in place to ensure everything goes on fine. However, the security enforcement officers are not stationed at the polling centres,&quot; he said.