More than 30,000 Kenyan citizens illegally in the US could be on their way home if President-elect Donald Trump makes good his campaign threat to deport illegal immigrants. Also, beneficiaries of Government support programmes to fight diseases such as HIV and Aids and starvation could be exposed in Mr Trump&#39;s lacklustre foreign policy for Africa. And back home, it could mean the end of the road for thousands of young people from poor backgrounds hoping to study in the US under Government scholarships, which the incoming President has sworn to eliminate immediately he takes office. Trump, who registered a landslide victory against his main rival, Democrat Hillary Clinton, has ruled out offering a path to citizenship for unauthorised immigrants. His tough immigration policy means that the large number of Kenyans, making up a 10th of the unauthorised settlers from sub-Saharan Africa in the US, will be sent back home. NEW SYSTEM READ MORE Kenya shilling holds firm as analysts predict stability News media yet again caught flat-footed as they misread America's complex political pulse Trump wins Ohio, battles Clinton for lead in close battleground races &quot;For those here illegally and are seeking legal status, they will have one route and only one route; to return home and apply for re-entry under the rules of the new legal immigration system,&quot; Trump said on his campaign trail. He has been quoted by American media as having repeated this stance after clinching victory yesterday. Discussions on social media platforms among people thought to be unauthorised Kenyans living in the US point to panic and anxiety. The elimination of unauthorised immigrants, most of whom entered the US through student or visiting visas that have since expired, is top on Trump&#39;s agenda to &quot;Make America Great Again&quot;. A special deportation force would be put together in the initial days following his swearing-in and inauguration scheduled for January 20, 2017. At least 11 million undocumented immigrants, more than half from neighbouring Mexico, are expected to be flown to their countries of birth. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;