Opposition presidential hopeful Kalonzo Musyoka has declared he would not support CORD co-principal Raila Odinga to run for president next year if he sees he is going to lose like in 2013 when he dropped his own bid to back him. In an hour-long exclusive interview with The Standard over an array of issues touching on CORD and the country at his Nairobi&rsquo;s Karen home, the former vice president argued the coalition was ready to take power come next year and was pulling all stops to send Jubilee home. Here is the full interview: Q: How would you prefer the coalition to? pick its presidential candidate &ndash; through a competitive process or consensus? We do not have time for competitive nomination because that would create animosity and we know ourselves. I think we will have to agree, agree or disagree, that&rsquo;s a hard fact. Q: And what considerations should guide the process? READ MORE Kalonzo: DP Ruto is not guaranteed presidency in 2022 DP Ruto hits out at CORD over plot to reject poll results Governor Ruto tells Kenyans to get rid of Jubilee in the next polls We have not come to that. We will cross the bridge when we get there. But I have said this openly before that whoever is given the ticket must guarantee the coalition that they would not lose to Jubilee; that must be the only consideration. Q: You supported Raila in 2013 and you lost. Would you support him again? That is why I am saying I can&rsquo;t afford that approach. I am not saying that this time he may not win but we must look at it. If we are going to end the same way we did then he cannot be the flag bearer. If I am the flag-bearer and the possibility is that I am going to lose, again I should not be the flag bearer. So we have a lot of introspection to do and being as straight forward as that. Q: Some people may argue that you need to consider popularity and as it stands now Raila seems to be the most popular among the three of you? Why, why do you think so? We have asked our management team to do a very scientific poll of pairing each of us. A repeat of last poll or reverse that and have Kalonzo running and Raila supporting or Wetang&rsquo;ula running and Kalonzo supporting, that&rsquo;s is what we want. But this one of saying that one is popular on their own and the moment you get them depending on the choice of running mate you are done or worse still the vote is rigged. But the country would this time round not tolerate rigging. Q: Would you accept to be a running mate? GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;