Malnutrition is a threat to social and economic progress in Kenya. The biggest paradox of all is that Kenya is faced by the multiple burdens of malnutrition, under-nutrition and over nutrition, which cost the Government and the taxpayer a lot of money. Over nutrition - obesity and overweight - puts an individual at a higher chance of developing non-communicable diseases such as cancer, diabetes and cardiac arrest, among many others. On the other side, under-nutrition is equally costly to our economy. As of now, one in four children is shorter for their age (stunted), which is an alarming situation. This means a quarter of children in Kenya may never see the light of success in their lives. Effects of stunting are gross; the child can never grow to their full potential due to the small brain. READ MORE Stage set for Kenya Open boxing tourney Ford Kenya wants CORD to share elective posts Railways scheme sits on Sh30b as thousands of retirees live in misery Effects of stunting cannot be reversed as they are permanent. Investing in a costly education system might never earn the child success. Vision 2030, which involves transforming Kenya into a middle-income country whose citizens enjoy a high quality of life, might remain a dream if we do not invest in the lives of pregnant mothers, infants and young ones. Good nutrition is an investment to the grey matter infrastructure whose returns will be realised by having a population of critical thinkers, achievers in the global arena, issue-driven and richer society as they are more independent. The political class should take a deliberate decision to end the cyclic hunger situation in Kenya, which scales up the level of malnutrition. It is possible to have zero malnutrition in Kenya if our efforts are concerted in ending this monster. Kenya should fight to stop being amongst the worst performing countries on malnutrition. Every penny counts by investing in nutrition. Research has shown that, globally, for every dollar invested on nutrition, there is an economic return of $13. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;