A man who attacked a magistrate in a Nakuru court after a sentence to three years imprisonment was pronounced on him has admitted to have attempted to kill the magistrate and the complainant during the conclusion of a case of assault he was facing. Michael Kuhora Njeri who was arraigned in court early yesterday under tight security pleaded guilty to the attempted murder charges before Chief magistrate Josephat Kalo. He admitted to have intended to kill Resident Magistrate Eunice Kelly and Edith Adhiambo (the complainant) on November 22, 2016 after attacking them with a screw driver in a courtroom immediately his judgment was delivered. It is alleged that he stabbed the magistrate six times while Adhiamabo was stabbed severally on her neck causing serious injuries on them. He also accepted having injured a police officer Wanjiru Ngugi on her index figure during the incident. Kahuro who is charged with six counts pleaded guilty of the first three counts and denied the other three. READ MORE Guilty plea now not acceptable by Court of Appeal in Kenya Man killed outside US embassy was 'lone wolf' Pro-business Sessions will not go easy on corporate crime: lawyers Among the counts he denied include charges of obstructing police officer from performing her duty, intentionally obstructing the magistrate from executing her court duties and causing disturbance at the Nakuru law courts. The prosecution applied to have him detained in the cells until Friday November 25, 2016 when the prosecution will present the facts of the charges he admitted to and set a hearing date for the other three charges he denied set. It also opposed to have him released on bond as he is serving a sentence and deem him dangerous, it further stated that he was a flight risk person. In mitigation, the man told the court that he found the screw driver he used in his attack in a government building which he did not state exactly and being an electrician he saw it useful. &quot;I found the screw driver in a government building and I being an electrician saw it useful to me and picked it up,&quot; said the man. He said he had no intention of attacking the magistrate and the complainant, however after the judgment he felt aggrieved and went for them. He brought to the attention of the court that at the time of the incident he was a bit drunk and never knew what he was doing. He however felt sorry having committed the offense. &quot;I didn&#39;t know what I was doing, I got furious since in my mind I thought the court will let me free, I feel sorry&quot; he added. He said he is an orphan and he has a child who depended on him as the mother fled. Glance box -Charged with six counts -First three counts include; attempting to kill magistrate by stabbing her six times, attempting to kill complainant in assault case by stabbing her on the neck severally and injuring a police officer who manned the courtroom. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;