A gang injured a police officer and stole seven guns during a raid at a police station. Constable Ezekiel Juma sustained deep cuts on his head following the attack on Booker Police Post in Mumias. And the officer was left unattended for more than one hour after the attack. He reportedly was the only one manning the post when the raiders struck and stole G3 rifles and 140 bullets. &ldquo;We usually have four officers manning the post at any given time but when the crooks came in, they found one officer. The other three had responded to a distress call elsewhere,&rdquo; said Western Regional police boss Moses Ombati. The statement contradicted suggestions by the public that the post is &ldquo;ever deserted with only one or two officers at any given time.&rdquo; KEY WITNESS READ MORE Thugs attack Booker police post, steal all guns Officer: Death row convicts should face firing squad Gangsters steal 63 bags of coffee from Ragati Coffee Factory Police admitted that it would be difficult getting information to recover the guns and ammunition as the key witness, Juma, was in an unstable condition at the St Mary&rsquo;s Hospital in Mumias. &ldquo;We have to start from zero in tracking the suspects because the best suited person to feed us with information cannot speak at the moment. He was seriously injured and is receiving treatment at St. Mary&rsquo;s Hospital. Nonetheless, operations have started to hunt down the suspects from all corners,&rdquo; said Ombati of the attack which occurred between 4am and 5:30am yesterday. The gang made away with all the German-manufactured riffles save for &ldquo;a few pistols and gun oil.&rdquo; Ballistics experts and detectives dusted several places at the post for fingerprints as the crime scene remained sealed off for civilians for close to one hour. Yesterday, St Mary&rsquo;s Hospital made preparations to transfer the officer to the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital, Eldoret for specialsed treatment. &ldquo;We booked the injured officer at 5:30am. He suffered deep cuts in the head and had lost a lot of blood. The cuts appeared to have been caused by a sharp object most likely a panga. We gave him first aid treatment and sent him for a CT scan before referring him to a hospital with intensive care unit,&rdquo; said Michael Mugo, the hospital&rsquo;s administrator. According to police, the attack was executed after 4am when the in-charge of Mumias police had passed by the post, which is located 500m from Mumias Sugar factory and sandwiched between Mumias Complex Primary, Nabongo club and Khetia&rsquo;s supermarket. When the officer in charge of patrols returned at 5:30am, he found the post broken into. A contingent of security heads led by county commissioner Kang&rsquo;ethe Thuku, western regional police bosses; for regular police Moses Ombati, regional AP commandant Paul Kerich and DCI&rsquo;s Ambrose Munyasia, visited the post. They dispatched one vehicle, believed to be carrying Flying Squad officers, and five other vehicles carrying officers from the regular and Administration Police to unknown areas. &nbsp; &nbsp; WATCHMAN PICKED GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;