A man and his wife were yesterday charged at the Shanzu Law Courts for kidnapping three minors after telling them they were their biological parents. Police believe the accused are part of an international child-trafficking syndicate that has trafficked children to Switzerland. According to an affidavit sworn by Mercy Makau, an investigation officer from the Child Protection Unit, the couple kidnapped the minors and took them to their parents&#39; home in Siaya County, as their biological children. Yesterday, Margaret Juma Magero and David Ochieng Ometho were charged with three counts of stealing and trafficking minors aged between one and a half and seven years from Mombasa to Siaya County. Introduced as siblings The two, who say they hail from Mtwapa, Kilifi County are said to have kidnapped seven-year old Beverlin Achieng alias Joan Atieno Alias Risper Aoko from her home in Maweni Kisauni Sub-County Mombasa County on March 18 2009. READ MORE DPP Tobiko orders arrest and prosecution of city lawyer Panic as gunman raids Nairobi supermarket, steals money Twelve bodies found in southwestern Mexico Gone into hiding On April 4 2011, the accused stole five-year old Joyce Mbuche Mzungu alias Elizabeth alias Gladys Gloria Awour from her mother Sidi Mwanumbo Chaga at their home in Bamburi, Kisauni, Mombasa County. They also stole one-and-a-half-year-old Brian from his parents. According to court records, the accused introduced the children as siblings. Ms Makau said that on October 2 2016 one of the children ran away from their Mtwapa home and was later found at nearby Kamukunji, where after being questioned, he narrated their ordeal. Makau said Margaret was arrested on October 27 this year in Nairobi while her husband was arrested in Ugunja in Siaya on November 17 2016. Reports indicate he had gone into hiding after he heard that his wife had been arrested in connection with the offences they were charged with. The couple denied the charges before Principal Magistrate Diana Mochache, and requested they be provided with lawyers. Margaret, a middle-aged woman remained silent and refused to defend herself and only said, &ldquo;I want a lawyer&rdquo; despite the magistrate&rsquo;s attempts to make her speak. Investigating officers have since traced and recorded statements from parents of the two older children. Parents of the third minor are yet to be traced. State prosecutor Berryl Marinda opposed their release on bond, saying investigations to find parents of the one and a half year child are ongoing. Ms Marinda said other children might have been trafficked out of the country to the couple&rsquo;s relatives in Switzerland. &ldquo;Our investigations have revealed crucial leads which indicate the two are involved in child-trafficking within and beyond Kenya. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;