At least six people were confirmed dead by yesterday evening following the collapse of a 10-storey building in Kisii town. Some 31 others sustained serious injuries during the mid-morning incident involving the building that was under construction. A 15-year-old girl was among those who died in the building that had been condemned as unfit by the relevant authorities. The girl was operating a shop adjacent to the building. According to Government spokesman Eric Kiraithe, the owner of the building and the architect were believed to have been in the building at the time it collapsed although this was not immediately confirmed. &ldquo;Search and rescue operations are underway and we have received extensive support from locals. The number of people who were in the building at the time of the incident has not not been confirmed. However, a number of them are assumed to be construction workers,&rdquo; said Mr Kiraithe in a statement yesterday. READ MORE Scores of people injured after 13-storey building collapses in Kisii Come back home son, Kisii parents plead with their 15-year-old Two killed in fresh border flare-up at Ikorongo The building, which was almost complete, came down in a residential area near Mwalimu Hotel. The area is classified as a wetland. The injured were rushed to Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital. By the time of going to press yesterday evening, Kenya Red Cross Regional Manager Benson Simba said at least 10 people were still trapped under the rubble. &ldquo;We are doing everything possible to save all those trapped inside the building. The heavy rains have hampered the rescue mission but we are confident we will rescue all those who are trapped,&rdquo; he said. Kisii Hospital Chief Executive Officer Enock Ondari said the injured were in stable condition and might be discharged today. Kisii County Disaster Management Director Julius Tinega said the rescue operation would continue until it was ascertained that all the victims had been rescued. &ldquo;Private developers in this town don&rsquo;t want to follow the right channels. They prefer shortcuts and end up endangering the lives of many,&rdquo; Mr Tinega said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;