Thousands of police officers who risk their lives to protect Kenyans and their property are living and working in deplorable conditions. A survey across the country reveals that some police officers have converted police cells into living quarters, while in some regions, the law enforcers are forced to&nbsp;mould mud and repair their ramshackle living quarters every time it rains. The situation is captured by the plight of officers working at Kamwenje Police post along the Laikipia-Baringo border who have to go without basic commodities such as water, houses or even toilets. Officers normally spend their nights in the cells which they have now converted into sleeping quarters. The police post, put up with funding from Laikipia West Constituency Development Fund (CDF) kitty, was meant to accommodate officers who normally patrol the border. But there were no police houses hence forcing the officers to convert the police cells into sleeping quarters. READ MORE Police in Central Kenya live in deplorable conditions Housing Finance Group posts Sh1.2 billion pretax profit Kiambu and Machakos Counties&rsquo; police commanders moved in mini-reshuffle &nbsp;STRONG WINDS Thanks to attacks by cattle rustlers, all the window panes on the building have been destroued, forcing the officers to use cartons to protect themselves from strong winds. An officer who sought anonymity, said they are forced to go to the bushes to relieve themselves. &quot;The state of the toilets is very bad that one cannot even visit them. We use the nearby bushes as our toilets as well as bathrooms,&quot; he says. The police post has no water supply. &quot;The closest river is over 10km from the police post and we normally ask for water from some good neighbours whom we have created rapport with. Working here is hectic,&quot; he said. Over 20 police officers have been deployed to the post to patrol the border and hence cannot fit in the cells. At Kakamega Central Police Station, police officers play cat and mouse with Kenya Power over non payment of bills which normally range between Sh200,000 and Sh600,000. &quot;Our seniors are not enthusiastic to have the power paid in time and will not do a thorough follow up with the police headquarters to have us reconnected. You walk from your house with crumpled clothes which have not been ironed,&quot; said a junior officer. The officer said it was frustrating for junior officers&#39; children, &quot;Peeping through the windows of the senior officers houses to watch popular TV programmes.&quot; And the situation is no different in Busia, with Budalang&#39;i Administration Police headquarters having no electricity meter of its own. &quot;The station has tapped power from the Assistant County Commissioners office,&quot; said a source. Other AP camps in Mudindi, Mau Mau, Sisenye and Nambengeta have no electricity. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;