Raw sewage is flowing into&nbsp;River Riana, Kisii&#39;s largest river. The sewage, according to residents of Suneka, is emanating from the Suneka treatment plant and started flowing into the river following heavy rains. Kisii town has been blamed for poor sewerage treatment and management systems and communities around Suneka have been calling for an overhaul of the treatment plant. Residents of Daraja Mbili, Suneka, Riana and Itierio villages and parts of Migori depend on the river&#39;s water for domestic use and for irrigation. &quot;This issue must be addressed immediately because we now fear drawing water from the river due to the filth,&quot; said Peter Manoti. Manoti said some farmers continue watering their plants with the contaminated water, risking the lives of those who buy their produce. &quot;We also fear for the health of our children who swim in the river,&quot; he added. Furthermore, children play barefoot in the open field inside the plant, exposing themselves to numerous risks. READ MORE KDF retrieve two bodies from collapsed Kisii building bringing death toll to 9 How dead animals find way into Kisii town slaughterhouse Teressa Kerubo, who stays about 200 metres from the treatment plant, said the stench from the plant is overwhelming. &quot;In the recent past we have experienced an overflow from some of the ponds. We no longer enjoy our meals because the stench is too strong. We are even thinking of moving from this area,&quot; she said. Gusii Water and Sanitation Company (Gwasco) said sewage flow into the main Kisii treatment plant at Suneka has doubled to almost 3,000 cubic metres per day from 500 cubic metres in 1982. The company&#39;s Technical Manager Osborn Obaigwa admitted they are facing challenges managing the sewer line. &quot;We have been forced on several occasions to spend a lot of money&nbsp; unblocking the system. Sometimes we find large stones and other solid objects dumped in the man holes. Some of the constructions have been done on top of the sewer lines, making it difficult for us to maintain them,&quot; said Obaigwa. Kisii and Nyamira counties have signed an agreement with German Development Bank to modernise the system. The Sh1.2 billion project will see an additional pond built at the treatment plant and an overhaul of the entire sewerage system in Kisii. &nbsp;