JAKARTA:&nbsp;Indonesian police said on Wednesday they will pursue an investigation into a blasphemy complaint by Muslim groups against the Christian governor of Jakarta, amid simmering religious and ethnic tension in the world&#39;s largest Muslim-majority country. The decision to officially name Basuki Tjahaja Purnama a suspect is likely to stoke concerns over rising hardline Islamic sentiment. But dropping the case could have sparked further protests led by hardline Muslims against Purnama and also against President Joko Widodo, who is seen as a key backer of the ethnic Chinese governor. More than 100,000 Muslims marched against Purnama this month, urging voters not to re-elect him in February. Ari Dono Sukmanto, chief of the National Police criminal investigation department, told reporters that &quot;the dominant opinion is that this case should be settled in court&quot;. Purnama, who was barred from leaving the country, faces up to five years in prison if the case goes to court and he is found guilty. READ MORE Three Nairobi suspects killed in war on crime Gangsters steal 63 bags of coffee from Ragati Coffee Factory Rongo Sub-County Hospital driver arrested over attempted theft Some analysts said the decision to pursue the case was a blow to democracy. &quot;It sets a bad precedent for minorities as the legal process can be dictated by public pressure,&quot; said Irine Gayatri, political analyst at the Indonesian Institute of Sciences. Indonesia recognises six religions and is home to several minority groups that adhere to traditional beliefs. The blasphemy allegations centre on a speech Purnama made in September in which he said his opponents had deceived voters by attacking him using a verse from the Koran. A social media user edited and subtitled a video of the speech but omitted a key word in the subtitles so it appeared the governor was criticising the Koran rather than his rivals, police say. The video went viral and incensed moderate and hardline Muslim groups alike. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;