Seven training institutions have been closed in Eldoret town for failing to comply with registration requirements. Technical and Vocational Education and Training Authority (TVETA) closed down the institutions and is planning to shut down 16 other middle-level colleges that have failed to meet requirements in an operation expected to last an entire week. The managers of the affected institutions were arrested and handed over to the police by TVETA team lead by Chairman Nebart Muriuki. The operation caught the officials of the institutions unawares and left students in confusion. The institutions affected by the closure include: Vera Beauty College, Royal Institute of Management Studies, Apex Institute, Alliance Francaise Eldoret, Kenya Association of Professional Counseling, Eldoret College of Accountancy and Rehema Institute of Management Studies. Muriuki said that the crackdown will continue until all the middle level colleges that are not complying with the registration requirements have been closed down. &quot;There are several institutions that have not been registered and we are terminating their operations until they comply with the regulations. We are also concerned on the qualifications of the training personnel, training facilities and the relevance of the examination bodies,&quot; Muriuki told the media after the Thursday crackdown. Muriuki said that it was unrealistic for the training institutions not to be registered yet TVETA made several notices through the media, adding that the owners should take advantage of the free registration period. &quot;Registration at the moment is free but we are surprised that the owners of the affected institutions do not even bother to seek registration certificates. We shall not relent because we want to ensure there is quality training in Kenya,&quot; Muriuki said. He added that it was mandatory for every institution in Kenya to independently register all their campuses rather than depending on the compliance of their headquarters. &quot;Registering main campus does not mean that other campuses comply with the standards. We inspect and register every campus according to TVETA Act,&quot; said Muriuki. TVETA Quality Assurance Officer John Osoro said that the institutions that were registered by the authority last year will be inspected to check on quality. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;