ISIOLO: CORD principal Raila Odinga has delved into the Isiolo-Meru boundary row, calling on Jubilee administration to move with speed and resolve the matter. Raila called for amicable solution to the dispute that has left scores killed on both sides when rival sides clashed between 2014 and early this year. &lsquo;&lsquo;There is no need for communities to fight and yet the boundary is known. The Jubilee administration should step in and resolve the matter,&rsquo;&rsquo; stated the former premier. The ODM leader spoke at Isiolo Stadium on Friday while accompanied by a host of MPs and aspirants eyeing various positions on the party&rsquo;s ticket in the 2017 polls. He had earlier in the morning addressed another meeting in Merti. Raila was accompanied by among others Mombasa and Kilifi Women Representatives Mashi Mboko and Aisha Jumwa respectively, Adan Kabelo who is seeking to unseat Isiolo Governor Godana Doyo and Farah Maalim, a former National Assembly Deputy Speaker who wants to unseat Majority Leader Aden from Garissa Township Constituency in the 2017 polls. READ MORE Raila claims runaway corruption will make Kenya bankrupt We were awarded excise stamps contract fairly, says Swiss firm ODM lays down tough conditions for aspirants eyeing seats in 2017 polls An ODM member of County Assembly Hassan Shano appealed to Raila to help Isiolo regain alleged lost land to Meru claiming the Jubilee administration favours their rival &lsquo;due to their numerical strength&rsquo;. &lsquo;&lsquo;We have been marginalized by all past administrations. The areas claimed by Meru are all in Isiolo but nobody can take a firm decision because they want the Meru vote which is densely populated,&rsquo;&rsquo; claimed Shano. Kabelo accused Doyo and Bahari of allegedly doing nothing about land woos in Isiolo while being members of the ruling party. &lsquo;&lsquo;Doyo has accepted annexation of Isiolo land to Meru and is quiet about it. Bahari was an MP for two terms and also did nothing. They failed to support the cause even when residents went to court,&rsquo;&rsquo; claimed the former NGO official. However, the Interior and Lands ministries sent surveyors earlier in the year to determine the boundary that was attended by Meru and boycotted by Isiolo. Isiolo residents went to the High Court in Nairobi but the case is still dragging. But Isiolo County Commissioner George Natembeya said the team found all the disputed areas as falling in Meru but the report is yet to be made public. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;