&nbsp; Makueni MCAs have unanimously passed a Bill meant to protect the elderly from all forms of abuse. The Makueni Senior Citizens Bill, 2016 sponsored by Nominated MCA Liza Zacharia will also see the senior citizens given cash transfers if it becomes law. And you will be required to pay a fine of up to Sh1 million if found ridiculing an elderly person. According to the Bill which defines &#39;an old person&#39; as anyone aged above 65, abusing an old person involves subjecting them to physical violence, insulting, ridiculing and calling them names, violating their sexual integrity as well as denying them money they rightfully deserve. Ms Zacharia&#39;s Bill further proposes Sh2,000 in cash transfers per month for every beneficiary, including those not currently covered by a similar scheme that has been initiated by the national government. &quot;A similar cash transfer programme by the national government has been characterised by lack of transparency where many deserving cases have been left out,&quot; said Majority Leader Francis Mutuku. Mutuku said the law would go a long way in addressing a myriad of challenges elderly people face in the current evolving lifestyles. To qualify for the cash transfer programme, according to the Bill, the beneficiary must be a Kenyan citizen aged 65 and above, without a ascertainable income. Kitise/Kithuki MCA Julius Mwalali said they would rely on the national government statistics to quantify the financial implication of the new law. The MCAs called on Governor Kivutha Kibwana to quickly ascent to the Bill to enable the senior citizens to its benefits. Cash transfers aim to reduce poverty by making welfare programmes conditional upon the receivers&#39; actions. The government (or a charity organisation) only transfers the money to persons who meet certain criteria. But cash transfers programmes have faced challenges with claims many deserving cases are left out. Meanwhile, leaflets urging residents of Masinga to demand accountability for millions of shillings allocated for various development projects from Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua were scattered all over ahead of a visit by the county chief Thursday. According to the leaflets believed to have been authored by Mutua&#39;s critics, most of the projects have not been implemented despite the fact that they had been allocated money. Mutua was scheduled to open a hospital in Masinga town before addressing rallies to popularise his Maendeleo Chap Chap movement.