CORD leader Raila Odinga has said he will never be intimidated by the Jubilee administration regarding his stance against questionable projects. Raila maintained that he would continue to fight corruption in Government and water projects, which he termed future disasters. He said the Itare Dam project was an environmental threat to parts of Bomet, Kericho, Kisumu, Nyamira, Homa Bay and Migori counties since it would adversely affect the rivers that feed these areas. Raila was speaking in Nyaronde in Borabu, Nyamira County, during the funeral of former West Mugirango MP Benson Kegoro&rsquo;s wife, Peris, yesterday. She was the mother of human rights lawyer and Centre for Multi-Party Democracy CEO George Kegoro. Raila said an independent report on the impact of the water projects would give Kenyans a true picture of what he was fighting against. POLITICAL DUEL &ldquo;It is unfortunate that what the Government is clinging to is that we have made it a political duel, which it is not. When I raised the issue of the dams, a few people dismissed my concerns as unfounded. A study of the project&rsquo;s likely effects on the water supply in the five counties will prove my assertions correct,&rdquo; he said, stressing that he would never be cowed into silence on issues affecting Kenyans. READ MORE Court rejects bid to stop Sh33b project Raila, DP Ruto trade accusations over corruption Raila in fresh bid to reclaim Rift Valley support, endorses Kimaiyo &ldquo;I know President Uhuru and his team would love to see me go silent over issues like the Itare and Bonyunyu dam projects, which have a major bearing on the lives of Kenyans. That will not stop me from speaking out whenever such matters arise,&rdquo; he insisted. On Gusii politics, Raila criticised a group of politicians calling themselves the Gusii Unity caucus, which he said lacked political direction. &ldquo;All along I have known Gusii people as very peaceful people and there has never been any conflict between them. Whoever is behind the so-called unity has lost political direction and doesn&rsquo;t know what he is talking about,&rdquo; said the former Prime Minister. Nyamira Governor John Nyagarama assured the Opposition chief of support from locals. &ldquo;You should order a special suit for your swearing in ceremony next year. We are a CORD region and remain confident of your win in next year&rsquo;s elections,&rdquo; Mr Nyagarama told Raila. RAILA&rsquo;S CREDENTIALS GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;