Poll officials reassured Americans on the credibility of the vote as they trooped to polling stations to elect President Barack Obama&#39;s successor. On the back of vote-rigging claims by Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, officials explained they had prepared adequately and deployed new equipment in some polling stations. A spot check on election preparedness in Virginia State, which had 2,241 polling stations with 133 city or county electoral bodies, reporters established that the polling centres were being manned by chief electoral officers while the city electoral office was under chief registrar. &quot;The voting started at exactly 6am and ends at 7pm. I can confirm that we were adequately prepared for these elections,&quot; said Commissioner of the State Election Department Edgardo Cortes. He continued: &quot;We began these preparations more than a year ago. We even got new equipment for some polling centres. We had trained polling officials on how to deal with polling issues.&quot; He said the eligible voters&#39; details were being verified against a poll book. Voters were required to produce a driving license, passport, student ID, job ID and free ID at the voting places. READ MORE Bob Dylan now says he will accept Nobel prize for literature American Airlines jet catches fire on takeoff at Chicago airport BAT fights State over new tough smoking rules CORRECT DETAILS &quot;We match all the details to ensure they are correct before one is allowed to vote. It is just a requirement to confirm the person voting has the acceptable document,&quot; said Cortes when he spoke to media at his office in Richmond, the capital of Virginia State. The results will only be posted on the official website once electoral officials have checked and verified the total votes cast and the number of people who turned up at the polling place. &quot;We also check on spoilt votes against the number of ballot got and cast,&quot; he explained. He continued: &quot;This is a form of audit done. We then post results by the local electoral office. The State system electoral management office post the result online. These are unofficial results and the 133 electoral bodies will have to canvas them within a week.&quot; This means by end of the voting and results posted, the media can project the election outcome. However, these are not the official results. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;