There were at least 16 joyriders who had no business travelling to Rio Olympic Games, an investigative committee has said. The joyriders, who included relatives of Olympic officials, cost the taxpayer more than Sh10 million. More millions were lost in allowances paid to officials who never traveled to Rio. Concerns over the presence of joy riders to Olympic Games in August were part of a long list of controversies generated by the National Olympic Committee of Kenya (NOCK)&rsquo;s handling of the event. The investigative committee report takes issue with the games&rsquo; Steering Committee for sending 16 of its members to Rio. &ldquo;A total of 16 members of the Steering Committee were in the contingent. Considering that in Rio, the National Olympic of Kenya (NOCK) was in charge of athletes, at most there should have been only five members of the committee. READ MORE NIKE CONTRACT NOT FAVOURING KENYANS:Rio report says American sports firm deal with NOCK needs review KORIR PACED FOR WIFE? Rio report states Cherangany MP left Team Kenya camp for Canada without permission Anwar did not get Olympics uniform &ldquo;Therefore, Team Kenya had 11 excess Steering Committee members,&rdquo; says the probe report. Each of the Steering Committee members was paid Sh975,146.88, which means that Kenya would have saved Sh10,726,615 by cutting down on this number. In total, the Government spent Sh15,612,318 on allowances for Steering Committee members. EXTRA STAFF The report also points out that there were four extra physiotherapists in the team. &ldquo;As per the IOC medical workbook, a team should carry one physiotherapist for every eight athletes. Team Kenya had 14 physiotherapists for 80 athletes which is four more than is needed,&rdquo; states the report. Each of the physiotherapist was paid an allowance of Sh914,200. The report further takes issue with Sports Kenya for carrying an extra member of staff. &ldquo;Much as it was important that Sports Kenya sends a representative to the games, one person was sufficient. There was no point of having both the Director General and the Chairman travelling to Rio,&rdquo; says part of the report. The report however defends Juliet Chepkorir Maritim, wife of Stephen Soi, the Chef de Mission for the Rio Olympic team who travelled to Brazil, saying she did not do so on a Government-paid air ticket but made her own travel arrangements. &ldquo;It was established that as much as she travelled to Rio to join her husband who had gone there earlier, she paid for her own ticket and was not paid for by the Government. She also paid for her own accommodation and was not staying at the Olympic Games Village. Proof of payment was made available to the committee,&rdquo; the report says. The committee, however, demands that Vincent Kanyili Paul, son of NOCK secretary general FK Paul, be made to refund money paid by the Government for the air ticket he used to travel to Rio. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;