The fate of the Sh2.5 billion ballot paper printing tender will be known tomorrow when a State agency makes a crucial ruling. The Public Procurement Administrative Review Board (PPARB) was forced to review the tender the electoral agency awarded to a Dubai-based printing firm, Al Ghurair, after it was challenged by another firm that participated in the process.&nbsp; Paarl Media of South Africa raised queries over possible irregularities in tendering and lodged an appeal with the procurement review board. PPARB yesterday said it will listen to both the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) and the complainant tomorrow before making a ruling over the matter, which could jolt the electoral commission&#39;s preparations for the August 8, 2017 elections. However, IEBC has defended its decision to award the tender to Al Ghurair and is expected to present evidence that it followed due process of procurement. READ MORE IEBC must keep off party primaries Don&rsquo;t panic, Raila tells Kenyans Kalonzo: I&rsquo;ll only back Raila if he&rsquo;s going to win the next polls Should PPARB establish the electoral agency failed to follow due diligence, then it would be instructed to start tendering afresh. This came as Jubilee and CORD engaged in a war of words over the tendering process. CORD leader Raila Odinga wants the tender cancelled and other key electoral activities suspended until new IEBC commissioners take over failure to which they will boycott the General Election. electoral officials However, Jubilee has told off CORD accusing the Opposition coalition of attempts to blackmail the Government and electoral officials. &quot;We are warning that we are not ready to participate in choreographed elections with predetermined outcome designed for the survival of an incumbent facing a possible election disaster due to a long story of being surrounded by lieutenants with long hands,&quot; said ODM Director of Elections Junet Mohammed. Amani National Congress Leader Musalia Mudavadi shared similar sentiments stating that procurement is a critical component of elections and should await the new commissioners. &quot;Procurement should wait for appointment of the bona fide commissioners. They may be doing the right thing but in the public perception, they are still doing what they used to do under the outgoing commissioners,&quot; said Mudavadi. Senate Minority Leader Moses Wetang&#39;ula warned IEBC to tread with caution in procuring key electoral materials lest it plunge the country into another crisis. &quot;It is in the interest of IEBC that procurement of key electoral equipment and ballot papers are done in a transparent, open and honest way. We want to go into an election united country,&quot; said Wetang&#39;ula. But National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale and Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria accused the Opposition of blackmailing the electoral commission. They noted IEBC is an independent institution and should not be micromanaged by any political group. Duale said the Opposition had succeeded in sending the besieged commissioners home and warned that they would not accept further intimidation of IEBC officials. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;