The panel seeking to fill the eight vacant positions at the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) is facing an arduous task of knocking off at least 107 doctorate degree holders from the pool of 748 applicants. It is a record feat in the history of public service jobs in Kenya and for an institution with a high turn-over of commissioners owing to the nature of the business they undertake. Of the 107 doctorate holders who applied for the jobs, 24 of them are serving professors and the applicants included architects, engineers and medical doctors, underscoring the high stakes in the eight positions. The professors are Abdi Yakub, Barack Owuor, Evans Mochoge, Clara Momanyi, Dickson Ondiek, Duke Omondi and Eric Masinde. Others are Wafula Okumu, Fugich Wako, Francis Indoshi, Kizito Nyongesa, Harrison Maithya, Omolo Ndiege and Hussein Golicha. Also in the race are Johnson Masai, Joseph Ongeri, Joshua Kwonyike, Kithaka wa Mberia, Lawford Ndege, Ngotho wa Kariuki, Patrick Mwangi, Peter Mageto, Reuben Marwanga and Stephen Mbogoh. The constitution does not prescribe academic qualifications for IEBC commissioners, but it provides for those who cannot be commissioners. They include people who have held office or stood for election as MP or MCA and members of governing bodies of political parties. READ MORE Jubilee and CORD clash on role of outgoing IEBC team IEBC would spend over Sh4b on Jubilee Party's primaries, says ODM Those seeking to head IEBC The IEBC Act, however, demands a degree qualification for applicants who should have experience in electoral, management, finance, governance, public administration and law and must comply with elements of Chapter Six of the Constitution on leadership and integrity. The constitution also forbids serving state officers such as judges and magistrates, members of independent commissions, cabinet secretaries and principal secretaries from accessing the top IEBC jobs. The law notwithstanding, a number of state officers, among them Judge Anyara Emukule and National Police Service Commission member Murshid Abdalla applied to become commissioners. Emukule had also applied for the chairperson&#39;s position but he was not shortlisted. Current and former top IEBC staff, senior civil servants, commissioners of non-independent commissions, top civil society activists, lawyers, members of the clergy dominate the list of the applicants. Immaculate Kassait, the current IEBC director of voter registration, Catherine Kamindo, the manager research and development, Joseph Masindet, a returning officer and Dismas Ong&#39;ondi, the former ICT director are among insiders battling for the top positions. Ong&#39;ondi was dismissed from the IEBC on September 2, 2014 on account of alleged misconduct and laxity. He moved to court to challenge his sacking, attracting a scathing affidavit from outgoing IEBC Issack Hassan. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;