For all the thousands &mdash; probably millions &mdash; of Kenyans who have offered bribes since January, only two persons have paid for it this year. In statistics that sum up the hypocrisy of Kenya&rsquo;s fight against corruption, only Charles Maina, an official of Isacco Construction Company, and Joseph Wanjau Kunyara, a private motorist, have paid for the vice since January. For all the corruption in the country, only 14 people have either paid for receiving bribes or corruptly acquiring public property this year. According to the statistics released by Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC), Maina offered &ldquo;a benefit&rdquo; of Sh1,000 and was convicted on February 29 with a fine of Sh50,000. Kunyara on the other hand &ldquo;corruptly offered a benefit&rdquo; of Sh2,000 and was convicted on January 21 and fined Sh100,000 or upon default serve three months in prison. Effectively, the two carry the burden of a nation seething in graft under a moribund anti-graft body, a conniving political class, a hypocritical society, and failed institutions in justice, law and order. For the umpteenth time, the country is recruiting a new chairperson at EACC, a man or woman who must overturn these grim statistics. As former Anglican Church of Kenya (ACK) Archbishop Eliud Wabukala, former Permanent Secretary Philemon Mwaisaka, William Kirwa, Peter Ondieki, Rose Osoro and Erastus Iguna are interviewed by the Public Service Commission (PSC) from Thursday, the nation must begin to ask itself the hard questions: Are we living a lie in so far as anti-corruption war is concerned? Does the burden of cleaning our act rest entirely on EACC? Is there political will to root out graft from Kenya? READ MORE Ms Kabura, the millionaire who baffles a nation Raila, DP Ruto trade accusations over corruption We did not fight over Sh4m say MCAs At the national level, one monumental scandal involving billions is giving way to another of similar magnitude in quick succession. At the local level, individuals far removed from the glare of public media are lost in an orgy of corruption and are too guilty to point a finger. Our national fury against corruption is fleeting, hypocritical and almost meaningless. The Kenyan people have moved on from the Tokyo Embassy scam, &ldquo;Hustlers jet&rdquo; scam, Anglo Leasing repayment, BAT scandal, &ldquo;Chicken-gate&rdquo; and Lamu irregular land. These are now tales. &ldquo;One of the greatest frustrations we face at the EACC is that of having to account ourselves to a highly hypocritical society where no one is willing to take responsibility at their level. The fight is only as good as it fights others, not you,&rdquo; EACC deputy CEO Michael Mubea says. Mubea, the man in charge of investigations at Integrity Centre, is himself a controversial figure in the entire anti-graft matrix depending on who you talk to. To Gretta Fenner, the director of International Centre for Asset Recovery, Mubea alongside CEO Halakhe Wago, are leading a quiet revolution at EACC. &ldquo;Since 2013 they have set about to rebuild the agency, and despite highly publicised trouble at the top, they have quietly been probing away and building the organisation&rsquo;s capacities as both a proactive and reactive investigative agency,&rdquo; she says. However, according to Ndung&rsquo;u Wainaina of International Centre for Policy and Conflict, Mubea and &ldquo;the whole caboodle at EACC&rdquo; are the biggest jokes in our land: &ldquo;He is least qualified, a puppet and an obstructionist. EACC itself is completely compromised structurally, operationally and financially.&rdquo; Back and forth GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;