Opposition leader Raila Odinga has accused President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto of presiding over a corrupt government and, noted that the growing number of financial scandals could result in an economic crisis. He noted that over the past four years, the Jubilee administration had been weighed down&nbsp; by&nbsp; corruption, insecurity and said that this had&nbsp; impoverished Kenyan. But rather than address the issue, the Jubilee administration had demonstrated that it was sensitive to criticism, even when complaints were valid. The CORD leader was speaking yesterday during the homecoming ceremony of ACK Archbshop Jackson ole Sapit at Oledeem Village in Narok North constituency. He said the Jubilee government was now spending Sh33 billion on a project to&nbsp; divert water from the Mau Forest, to the detriment of sizeable populations. Furthermore, he claimed that the Itare Dam project would divert water from several rivers in the six counties of Narok, Bomet, Kericho, Kisumu, Homa Bay and Nakuru&nbsp; that depend on the Mau Forest catchment area. The government has however defended the Itare dam project. Water CS Eugene Wamalwa said the project had been cleared by environmental authorities and other relevant agencies and noted that Raila&#39;s claims were designed to sabotage the project and deprive the local people of water.&nbsp; READ MORE Speed up probe on embezzled funds from counties in Kenya EACC has failed Uhuru in graft war, says Jubilee legislator DP Ruto slams Raila for faulting Jubilee projects Wamalwa said Raila was fighting projects the office of the former Prime Minister (PM) had designed and approved as part of the Vision 2030. &ldquo;It is unfortunate that the former Prime Minister is suffering from selective amnesia, fighting projects whose designs he paid for. Why did the office of the PM, then under Raila&rsquo;s leadership, pay Sh100 million for the design of the Sh38 billion Itare Dam project, yet he is now fighting it? posed Wamalwa. Forcing locals But yesterday, the ODM leader regretted that the government was forcing the project down the throat of local residents without considering the ecological impact it could have. &ldquo;This government is forcing this project on the locals without regard to its ecological impact,&rdquo; he said. On his part, Archbishop Sapit called on politicians to preach peace and unite Kenyans. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;