Cape Town: South Africa&#39;s Jacob Zuma faces a no-confidence vote in parliament next week with his presidency mired in crisis, after investigators documented allegations of government corruption and thousands of people took to the streets to demand he resign. The vote was called by the main opposition on Thursday following a report by the country&#39;s anti-corruption watchdog calling for a judicial inquiry into allegations of influence-peddling in the ANC government. The report was finally released after the president withdrew a court bid to delay its publication in the face of mass public protests. Police used stun grenades and water cannon to disperse protesters in Pretoria carrying &quot;Zuma must go&quot; placards. Mmusi Maimane, leader of the main opposition Democratic Alliance (DA), told a news briefing in Cape Town that the no-confidence debate and vote was scheduled for Nov. 10. &quot;This motion should not be viewed as a partisan motion - we do not see it as a DA motion,&quot; he said. &quot;I know there are ANC MPs and cabinet ministers who have had enough. They have an opportunity to actually do something about their anger next week Thursday.&quot; Zuma has survived his two previous no-confidence votes this year, largely backed by the support of his ANC (African National Congress) which controls about two-thirds of the assembly. READ MORE Heed Magufuli&rsquo;s call on tribalism EACC probes nepotism claims against MCAs Health CS Cleopa Mailu grilled by EACC over Afya House scam A senior party official told Reuters that ANC lawmakers were unlikely to break ranks and support the motion this time round. But there have been widening fissures in the ruling party this year and growing discontent with the scandals that have plagued Zuma&#39;s presidency and played a role in the ANC suffering its worst electoral losses since the end of apartheid in municipal polls in August. The ANC&#39;s chief whip in parliament, Jackson Mthembu, last month urged Zuma to lead senior party officials in quitting their posts, saying fraud charges levelled against Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan were an abuse of power. The charges against Gordhan have since been dropped. Since taking office in 2009, Zuma has survived several corruption scandals. But the watchdog&#39;s report, public protests and no-confidence vote pile more pressure on the 74-year-old to resign than at any other time - and if he stays in power, they could embolden his rivals within the ANC to challenge him. The ANC said in a statement the report was a basis for the country to discuss the allegations and deal with its outcomes. Gupta family GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;