Fiery Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama has temporarily abandoned the politician&#39;s microphone and delved into the literary world. He has published a book: Tears For My Motherland.The senator writes about historical perspectives to modern day problems affecting Kenya. In it, he calls on Kenyans to reflect on the past while looking brightly into and building the future.He takes the reader through different time zones, such as the Mau Mau resistance movement and the mistakes that led to loss of nationhood due to nepotism, favouritism and corruption. The forward to the book, written by Muthama&#39;s Senate counterpart James Orengo, extols the effort made by the author to show that although the Kenyan dream may have been deferred, it remains attainable to all who wish to see the country transform into a better nation.&quot;Kenya is embroiled in an environment in which leaders seek domination as ordinary people fight for survival. Wealth and power as against penury and helplessness. Senator Muthama has given the story of the optimist who believes rightly that Kenya&#39;s best time is yet to come,&quot; writes Orengo.&quot;We have taken some strides towards a new dawn. But we have also made some big steps back. We need to turn the corner. Turning the page is not enough. We must change the script and open up the great opportunities that still lie ahead for the country.&quot;Muthama, born on October 20, 1954, he represented the people of Kangundo in Parliament after the 2007 elections. In 2013, he was elected the senator of Machakos County. He is the official Opposition&#39;s (CORD) chief whip in the Senate. He has been described as the new leader of Lower Eastern liberal politics and is known not to shy away from controversy.In June, he was among six legislators detained for four days over allegations of hate speech and incitement.Muthama&#39;s book shows the man has come a long way to become the self-made individual he is today.&quot;Senator Muthama has written a commendable book; giving a brief but crucial analysis of the problems facing Kenya. It is not a political dirge or lamentation. And certainly not a blue print from a pedagogue or theoretical work of an ideologue,&quot; Orengo writes in the foreword.&quot;It is the product of a man who has risen from the ashes like a phoenix to enter the gladiatorial arena of national politics while at the same time running successful businesses. There lies its strength.&quot;Muthama&#39;s book identifies the problems currently dogging Kenya, but also offers well-thought-out solutions.The book has been written in simple English and strikes the core of the subject the senator addresses.One cannot fault the senator though for his attempt to chronicle a piece of Kenya&#39;s history through his own eyes. He does not claim expertise, only knowledge through the experience that comes with holding public office.