A Pakistani woman who police and immigration officials say has been leading in printing fake work permits and giving them to unsuspecting foreigners has been arrested in Nairobi&#39;s Parklands area. Malika Feroz Ali was arrested after being on the run for months following a crackdown by the officials on those behind a racket to issue the fake documents. Police say she was expected in court to face charges of obtaining a work permit by presenting forged documents. Many foreigners had linked the woman to the syndicate after they were found with such fake work permits. Last week, a man was arrested and permits valued at Sh2.7 million recovered. The suspect was arrested in Rumuruti area, Laikipia County after being on the run for months. He had been selling the permits to Chinese experts in the country, immigration officials said. Officials said Solomon Joloimet was arrested after the nine Chinese nationals filed a complaint with the immigration department saying he had promised to give them the documents at a fee in vain. &quot;We suspect there are more such documents out there and i caution both Kenyans and foreigners not to fall into hands of fraudsters by seeking services in government offices,&quot; said director of immigration Maj-Gen (Rtd) Gordon Kihalangwa . He argued that fraudster must have used language barrier as a loophole to defraud the Chinese foreigners. Work/Residence Permits are issued to any non-Kenyan wishing to engage in employment in Kenya whether in gainful employment or voluntary service. The Work/Residence Permits issued by the Department are classified from A to M inclusive. Each cost between Sh10,000 and Sh300,000. The immigration department has been making efforts to address loopholes that were used by brokers to con unsuspecting foreigners. READ MORE All set for Kenya Open Boxing Championships China's most-wanted corruption suspect surrenders after 13 years abroad Indonesia police to pursue blasphemy case against capital's Christian governor as tension simmers This include ensuring registration is done online.