NAIROBI: Government has been advised to stop the relocation process of Kenya Technical Teachers College (KTTC) until proper investigations are carried out and all stakeholders involved. A report by the Commission on Administrative Justice (CAJ) says there was no evidence the United Nations body in Gigiri made formal request to use the 32-hectare college land. And now, the Ombudsman wants the relocation of the college to Kenya Science Campus (KSC) premises stopped and fresh investigations instituted. The commission&#39;s chairman Dr Otiende Amollo said a task-force be formed to carry out a detailed investigation into the matter and to involve all the stakeholders. He said University of Nairobi (UoN) that runs KSC, KTTC, National Land Commission (NLC), students&rsquo; unions and Nairobi County government must meet to look into the Government decision. &quot;The way Government is reacting to this matter is suspect. Land in this country is owned by national and county governments but they do not have authority to sell it. It is only the NLC that has that mandate,&quot; Amollo said. READ MORE CS Matiang'i warns varsities that favour politicians Pray thee, get us more Matiang&rsquo;is Education CS says stringent exam regulations will extend to marking He said the commission&#39;s investigation into the matter shows that the Nairobi County government and NLC were not consulted over the relocation. The report released Friday revealed that investigation into the relocation bid is shrouded in mystery. The controversy over KTTC kicked off after Education Cabinet Secretary Dr Fred Matiang&#39;i to UoN Council chairman over relocation intentions. In his letter dated September 9, 2016, to Dr Idle Farah, Matiangi said KTTC is supposed to be relocated by December 1st. &quot;The Kenyan Government has reached a strategic decision to relocate KTTC from its current premises at Gigiri to the former Kenya Science Teachers College, currently a campus of UON on Ngong Road with effect from December 1, 2016,&quot; reads part of the letter. &quot;Your council is required to surrender the premises and all the facilities within it to the council of KTTC with effect from December 1. It will be your council&#39;s responsibility to ensure that these facilities are surrendered in good use and in the case of houses and residential areas in vacant position,&quot; the letter further said. The CS instructed Farah to act urgently given the weight of the strategic decision. But the Ombudsman&#39;s findings show that Matiang&rsquo;i wrote a rather terse letter to the chairperson of the UON Council communicating the decision yet there was no direct communication to the Vice-Chancellor and the Principal of the Kenya Science Campus. Interestingly, the CS held a meeting with the council chairman, Principal and officials of the students&rsquo; union of KTTC to communicate the decision. There was no meeting with Kenya Science Campus or UON management, Ombudsman finds. Amollo said if the relocation is not stopped, it will affect thousands of students, lecturers, subordinate staff and neighbouring community. The move will also affect investments worth billions of shillings made at the two colleges by Government and donors. KTTC was funded by the Canadian government while KSC received funding from the Swedish government. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;