NAIROBI: Resistance is normal. This statement is probably uncomfortable to read, and will likely be met with a few raised eyebrows. But it is the reality, more so in organisations. We are used to the traditional approach, where employees who do not buy into organisational changes are met with ultimatums. However, creating an atmosphere that feels hostile and tense to an employee is likely to defeat the purpose of actually trying to implement change, and, in the long run, is counterproductive. To many people change is equated to loss. It might mean losing that area or feeling of comfort hence the resistance. The story is often told of a little boy whose mother tells him to sit down. He refuses. She repeats her instruction. He resists. She insists. She finally wins, or seems to. When he finally sits on his chair, the boy adamantly says to his mother, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m sitting on the outside, but in my heart, I&rsquo;m standing!&rdquo; READ MORE Governor ordered to pay sacked officials in suit Selling electronics puts food on the table Getting a new lease of life after blindness struck This boy accepted the change, but he did not embrace it. This happens in many organisations as well. The truth is that a hostile atmosphere cannot result in change being embraced at the &ldquo;heart&rdquo; level, and yet for the change to have its desired effect, the team must embrace it. I have heard it argued that people are being paid to do a job, so they should either shape up or ship out. Like the little boy they will shape up on the inside, but they will be mentally and emotionally checked out, and this is likely to show up, and unfortunately often shows up right before your clientele. Leaders often underestimate the power of the current state of the employees. The team usually operates within the status quo - a real force that has a powerful hold on people and prevents them from moving forward. Leaders, on the other hand, often operate in the future state and fail to appreciate that not everyone sees things as they do or can understand how to get to the future state. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;