Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho on Friday berated the national government over its failure compensate fishermen displaced by port dredging and the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) projects. Joho who was presiding over the launch of the first ever locally built and assembled deep sea fishing vessel at the Old Port in Mombasa said that while he does not oppose projects all those affected must be adequately compensated. Fishermen are seeking Sh800 million as compensation after they were prevented from fishing around Mkupe and Port Reitz areas following dredging and SGR related works. &quot;We are going to court to compel the Ministry of Transport, Kenya Ports Authority (KPA), Kenya Railways and the China Roads and Bridges Corporation (CRBC) to have compensation effected,&quot; Joho said. However, Kenya Railways Managing director, Mr Atanas Maina told The Standard that the fishermen will be compensated starting next week. &quot;We have concluded the verification exercise and the payments will be effected next week,&#39;&#39; Maina told The Standard in a brief statement. READ MORE Joho and Mung'aro clash over plan to set up dry port in Eldoret Ruto accuses Raila of defending corruption Kalonzo: DP Ruto is not guaranteed presidency in 2022 Governor Joho and Mombasa County Executive incharge of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries, Anthony Njaramba inspected the vessel christened MV Mombasa 001 before launching it. The county chief said that he will be directing his officers to seek legal redress to compel the institutions to pay up compensation to fishermen affected by the dredging works and on gong SGR project. He further hinted as possibilities of a second legal suit by the County government after the national government turned down a plea to have it get revenue from Mombasa Port operations. &#39;&#39;All successful city ports in the world are owned by the substantive city or municipal authorities under whose jurisdiction they fall like Durban in South Africa, Long Beach in the United States of America, Antwerp in Belgium, Dubai and Shanghai in China respectively. Mombasa is no exception,&#39;&#39; Joho said. And in what appears to a thinly availed attack on Deputy President William Ruto who had branded Joho as an academic dwarf, Joho demanded that the government call in international auditors to carry out life style audit on leaders. &#39;&#39; I am ready for this. We should lead by example and want all leaders to be audited so that Kenyans can know what kind of people their leaders are. I am not a grabber of school land,&#39;&#39; Joho said.