Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto and Emurua-Dikir MP Johanna Ngeno have told Deputy President William Ruto he might not ascend to the presidency in the 2022 general election. Speaking at Sigowet grounds in Soin/Sigowet constituency, the duo reminded the Deputy President that politics is dynamic and his 2022 General Election presidential bid was in jeopardy with the entry of former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth into the political scene. Kenneth recently resigned as the Kenya National Congress (KNC) chairman and is perceived to be the Mt Kenya political mafia&#39;s project being groomed to take over from President Uhuru Kenyatta. &quot;The aim of jubilee&#39;s power brokers is for Peter Kenneth to be the 2022 presidential candidate and the first step is to ensure that he makes a comeback to the national limelight by taking over the Nairobi gubernatorial seat,&quot; said Ngeno. Governor Ruto asked the DP to face the political reality and allow democracy to thrive in Rift Valley. &quot;Let us tell each other the truth. The greatest mistake that the Deputy President made was to allow the dissolution of United Republican Party (URP), he will learn the hard way that a politician cannot enjoy sleep when he or she doesn&#39;t have a safety net in form of a political party which he can use to bargain with,&quot; said the governor. READ MORE DP Ruto tells off Munya over political zoning Account for cash stolen from counties, Ruto now tells Raila Governor Ruto vows to turn tables on DP Ruto in battle for Rift Governor Ruto at the same time expressed confidence that he would defy the DP&rsquo;s alleged schemes which includes state orchestrated violence by retaining the governorship position through Chama Cha Mashinani (CCM) in the 2017 general election. &quot;My political experience spans more than 20 years. I know I have the confidence of bona fide voters in Bomet County and they are the ones who will vote for me,&quot; said Governor Ruto. The Bomet governor at the same time asked the jubilee administration to share national resources with the counties on a 50/50 basis. &quot;There is no reason why the national government retains money in the city. The counties require the funds immediately to implement the development agenda such as provision of water, construction of roads and purchase of medicine and non-pharmaceuticals,&quot; said Ruto. Ruto and Ngeno also said Elgeyo-Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and the DP&#39;s aide Farouk Kibet must be immediately arrested and arraigned in court over the looting of part of the Sh1.6 billion from the National Youth Service (NYS). &quot;Whoever stole public funds must not be allowed to go scot free and continue to enjoy the illegally acquired funds,&quot; said Ngeno.