Kenyans have been stunned...totally dumbfounded by the levels of corruption in this nation. It got to my depths when I watched a young woman sit calmly and confidently before a parliamentary committee and explain how she carried away millions of shillings in bags &ndash; into thin air. Over Sh1.6 billion carted away from state coffers! What is amazing is that Ms Kabura did not deny receiving the said amounts. What she could not remember were the names of those she paid. If the committee was frustrated by Kabura, I was angry...very angry at her audacity and sense of impunity. I was left wondering if there is anybody in this great nation with a conscience and sufficient resolve to deliver us from this mess. By sheer coincidence, President Magufuli was in town just when the &ldquo;Matiang&rsquo;i exams&rdquo; kicked off. As the Tanzanian President was commissioning the Nairobi Southern Bypass, he warned contractors against shoddy jobs. &ldquo;When a contractor signs a contract, he must ensure that within two years after completion of the road works, it does not develop potholes.&rdquo; That requires a miracle in Kenya. On his part, Dr Matiang&rsquo;i, the Education CS was visiting various KCPE exam centres to ensure enforcement of the drastic measures he had ordered to help curb exam cheating. He had promised in May. &ldquo;I will be at the exam centres myself, working with the supervisors. Principal Secretaries, directors from the ministry, and I will be on duty to ensure we deliver credible results this time.&rdquo; And he was. As I watched the Kabura proceedings and followed the Health Ministry saga, my mind went to these two men &ndash; President Magufuli and CS Matiangi. They share something in common &ndash; a hands-on radical leadership style that seems to deliver results against all odds. As soon as he took office, President Magufuli made the fight against graft his first priority. Within his first 90 days, Magufuli had fired the Director General of the Anti-Corruption body, six senior officials in the Revenue Authority, the Director General of the Ports Authority, among others. His fame immediately soared. Likewise, once appointed as the Information CS, Dr Matiang&rsquo;i clashed with media houses on digital migration. In spite of a spirited fight by media houses, the CS stood his ground until the migration was implemented. When he moved to Education, he sent KNEC Board packing over what he termed &ldquo;a culture of mediocrity, corruption and incompetence.&rdquo; He then instituted radical exam management rules. What followed was more than fireworks. What is common between Magufuli and Matiangi leadership? Their style is generally known as directive leadership. Though often viewed negatively as autocratic or dictatorial, it is a style that bears much fruit in crisis situations. It is what created Singapore, transformed Rwanda, and is building Ethiopia. In contingency theory, a leadership style should be appropriate for specific circumstances. Unfortunately, in Kenya, we have constitutionalised one style of leadership &ndash; participatory or democratic. We thus require our leaders to consult, discuss and invite views and opinions on almost everything. When leaders behave otherwise, we sue, demonstrate, picket &ndash; as has been the case for Matiang&rsquo;i and many others. Magufuli and Matiang&rsquo;i actions are neither unique nor unprecedented. In 2003, each minister took his or her role with resolve and gusto. As Michuki tamed matatus, Odinga reclaimed the road reserves for the by-passes. Tuju reclaimed KICC as Saitoti enforced implementation of the free primary education. While Karua dug wells, Chebii Kilimo cleaned the Immigration Department. And several others did their bit with similar resolve. Yet, little was heard about the President...leading quietly from the background. READ MORE CS Matiang'i restored credibility of KCPE exams We must teach children positive values during the long holidays Positive steps towards credible examinations What is clear is that if corruption is going to be tamed, then every State officer must individually act with courage and resolve.