South Sudanese Rebel leader Riek Machar (below) has accused Kenya of putting the life of one of his top aides in danger by deporting him to Juba. In a press statement issued from his hideout yesterday, Dr Machar claimed James Gatdek Dak, his spokesman and press secretary has been arrested by the Southern Sudan Government after Kenya deported him after he was arrested in Nairobi two days ago. Dr Machar said that as a guarantor to the South Sudan Peace Agreement signed in 2015, Kenya ought to have protected Mr Dak because deporting him to Juba had put him in grave danger. Kenya, he said had breached the Geneva Convention on Refugees. &ldquo;I made calls to&nbsp; Kenyan government officials requesting that Dak should not be deported. I spoke to Deputy President William Ruto. I also spoke to Attorney General (Githu Muigai). &ldquo;I alerted them that Mr Dak was an urban refugee under protection of the United Nations High Commission for Refugees but my pleas were ignored,&rdquo; said Dr Machar. Fell out READ MORE Nabongo Wanga: King who rules beyond the grave Will Dar leader Magufuli hand Uhuru magic wand to fight endemic graft? KENYA SHOCKED IN ETHIOPIA: All gloom as Ugandans defend East Africa golf title The former South Sudan Vice President, who is also the commander in-chief of the Sudan People&rsquo;s Liberation Movement/Army fell out with President Salva Kiir, sparking a deadly civil war last year. He now wants Dak protected and returned to Nairobi to reunite with his family. In an ominous warning implying his forces could retaliate against Kenya, Dr Machar appealed to the international community and his commanders to protect Kenyan workers in his area of control. &ldquo;Make sure that you protect all Kenyan workers in our areas of control. They are innocent. They have no role in what their government did,&rdquo; he said. According to Dr Machar, Dak, was arrested from his residence in Kileleshwa on Wednesday by Kenyan security officials who went there in three vehicles. He was deported hours later. Dak was subsequently arrested on arrival in Juba, sparking anger in Dr Machar&rsquo;s Sudanese People Liberation Movement. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;