Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto has asked Deputy President William Ruto not to silence the Kalenjin community from agitating for their rights. Speaking a day after jetting back into the country from South Africa where he had gone for treatment, the Chama cha Mashinani (CCM) leader said the Kalenjin community has nothing to show despite overwhelmingly voting for Jubilee. &ldquo;He (the DP) says Kalenjins are in power but what is there to show? We are still choking in poverty and we need to free ourselves,&rdquo; Ruto said during a stopover in Narok town. The governor was received by hundreds of supporters on his way to Bomet, where he will hold a homecoming rally today. A teargas canister hit him on the face during a fracas between his supporters and those of National Assembly Deputy Speaker Joyce Laboso. Ruto, Emurrua Dikir MP Johanna Ng&rsquo;eno and his Kuresoi South counterpart Zakayo Cheruiyot accused the Deputy President of double-speak on corruption. &ldquo;At first, he had defended (former Devolution CS Anne) Waiguru when MPs wanted her ousted from the ministry. The other day he blamed her for the same case. We have heard him telling Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi to carry his cross following the alleged disappearance of funds in his county. It is ironical,&rdquo; said Ng&rsquo;eno. READ MORE IEBC best suited to manage party nominations Kenya government should fund party nominations NASA will form next government, vow opposition leaders The MP also faulted the National Assembly Public Accounts Committee (PAC) for failing to summon Ruto&rsquo;s aide Farouk Kibet and Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen after their names were mentioned in the NYS scandal. The three leaders accused the Jubilee Government of perfecting corruption, saying the Afya House scandal had dealt a blow to funds meant for the health sector in the counties. &ldquo;The Sh5 billion scandal at the Ministry of Health denied counties funds to buy drugs and support the free maternity programme. Which government does that?&rdquo; asked Ruto. Speaking at Ntulele Trading Center in Narok East, the governor said he had forgiven whoever hurled a teargas canister at him. He said the Kalenjin community is better off not joining the Jubilee Party. &ldquo;Kalenjins have been in government since independence. But the lives of our people have not changed. CCM will ensure all Kenyans get the dignity they deserve as we need half of the national budget to come to the counties,&rdquo; said Ruto. The governor also asked the Maasai community to ditch Jubilee and join CCM. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;