Kanu national chairman Senator Gideon Moi has defended President Uhuru Kenyatta against corruption allegations. Gideon, who is also the Baringo senator, said he knows the President at a personal level and is confident that Mr Kenyatta is not corrupt. Instead, Gideon laid the blame on corruption on the doorsteps of unnamed personalities around the presidency. Speaking at Oledeem Village in Narok North Constituency during a thanksgiving ceremony for the newly-elected ACK Archbishop Jackson Ole Sapit, Gideon said Uhuru means well for the country. &ldquo;Uhuru is a good President who means well for this country. I have grown up with him and he is my friend. He is not a thief but those around him are the problem,&rdquo; Gideon said. The senator, who shared a podium with CORD co-principal Raila Odinga and former KNC party leader Peter Kenneth, congratulated the archbishop on his election saying that his position was an indication that the Maa community can even clinch the presidency. Speaking at the same function, former Prime Minister Raila Odinga criticised the Jubilee Administration over corruption saying the government was combative on criticism over corruption. READ MORE Corruption will plunge Kenya into economic crisis, Raila warns Farmers in Kenya need State backing to improve earnings EACC has failed Uhuru in graft war, says Jubilee legislator &ldquo;This Jubilee government has eaten too much. It is high time Kenyans took their Identification Cards and voters&rsquo; cards to send them home. We also want the Mau issue resolved soon and we shall not relent on this,&rdquo; Raila said. Kenneth echoed Raila&rsquo;s sentiments on the need to fight corruption but defended the government saying it is the individuals involved in scandals who should face the law at a personal level. &ldquo;The government is not corrupt. It is some few individuals who are corrupt. Those who will be found culpable of corruption should be jailed without the option of fine,&rdquo; said Kenneth. Politics of development Kenneth has since joined President Kenyatta&rsquo;s led Jubilee Party and taken legal steps of decamping from his KNC party by way of officially notifying Registrar of Political Parties of his resignation from KNC. Speaking in Kwale County, Deputy President William Ruto also defended government saying allegations of corruption against the government is a tactic employed by the Opposition to distract Jubilee from its development agenda. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;