Nairobi County leadership has vowed to end the tradition of allowing hawkers into the city centre every election year.Governor Evans Kidero and his deputy Jonathan Mueke said they will pull all stops now and in the coming months to restore order in the city irrespective of political considerations. Last Monday, business leaders read a riot act to county administrators over impunity, disorder and un-conducive business environment in the city as the General Election nears.&ldquo;We are not just ready to bite the bullet. We are already biting the bullet on this matter. We are done with Eastleigh and we are pushing on with other areas. People in Buru Buru can now breathe after almost being run out by illegal structures and kiosks,&rdquo; Mueke said.He said the administration is determined to break the cycle of impunity that has characterised electoral years where leaders exchange vote for disorder and chaos.&ldquo;We are changing this narrative by offering genuine leadership. We do not care that it&rsquo;s an election year. We must defend and restore the dignity of walking, living and doing business in this city. And we will do this at every cost,&rdquo; Mueke vowed.In the last few months, the Order and Enforcement Committee of the county, chaired by Mueke, has routed hawkers off Eastleigh&rsquo;s business district following persistent complaints by formal business leaders.Hawkers had taken over edges of the newly constructed Eastleigh First Avenue road as well as pedestrian pathways. They were violently removed following battles with county authorities and the police. &ldquo;We cannot have a situation where people are even putting up kiosks outside embassies and residences of diplomatic corps. We will insist that people use designated areas to do their business otherwise they will face the law,&rdquo; Mueke said.According to Governor Kidero, the county is expanding the existing markets, renovating others and constructing new ones to accommodate upcoming informal businesses. He says Nairobi shoulders the burden of sucking in 80 per cent of Kenya&rsquo;s new job seekers.&ldquo;Most people do not seem to appreciate the magnitude of the unique problems we face in this county. The numbers trooping to this city in search of opportunities are overwhelming to services that we can afford for them,&rdquo; he said.He said the county has not run out of options and plans are at advanced stages to expand the routine of closing off certain streets at certain times for hawking purposes. New markets are also coming up along Jogoo Road, Outering Road and a number of existing ones are being improved. The county has 43 markets run on rental, tenant purchase, site and service scheme and open air terms such as Wakulima market, Gikomba, Muthurwa, Kangemi and Kawangware.