Chaos erupted at an ODM rally in Homa Bay on as supporters of area governor&nbsp;Cyprian Awiti and Kasipul-Kabondo MP Oyugi Magwanga&rsquo;s clashed at a local stadium on Sunday. Trouble started when supporters of the two leaders attempted to reach the main dais at Homa Bay Stadium. While Awiti&rsquo;s supporters chanted slogans in support of his re-election, those of Magwanga, who has declared his interest in the governor&rsquo;s seat said he must be voted out next year. And when push came to shove, a shouting match ensued before it turned physical.&nbsp;The matter was compounded further when Homa Bay Town MP Opondo Kaluma engaged Mr Washington Ogaga, who is seeking to unseat him, in a wrestling match. After an arguement, a physical fight erupted. Their supporters joined in by hurling stones to send leaders on the dais scampering for safety. The leaders who had to take to their heels in the ensuing melee included Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma and Dr Hezron Mac Obewa who is hoping to unseat him. READ MORE Kajwang' was my informant, Raila reveals Joho tells Kalonzo and Wetang&rsquo;ula to declare Raila CORD flagbearer Account for cash stolen from counties, Ruto now tells Raila Woman Representative Gladys Wanga rushed to the stadium to calm the situation down but she was not able to as supporters of the four leaders escalated the fighting. Fighting started before ODM leader Raila Odinga and his deputy Ali Hassan Joho arrived at the stadium and did not stop even when they finally made their way into the venue. It was Raila himself who finally calmed down the rowdy youths and the rally went on. County police boss John Omusanga said they are yet to take any action regarding the violence because nobody has recorded a statement. &ldquo;It is true there was violence during the ODM rally but until a formal is made and statements recorded, then we are unable to act,&rdquo; said Omusanga. ODM chairman John Mbadi urged aspirants for various seats to guard against violence. &ldquo;ODM belongs to all of us, it is our party. Let us accommodate everyone and stay away from violence,&rdquo; he said adding they haven&rsquo;t ascertained the number of injuries.