AMERICA: Republican Donald Trump stunned the world by defeating heavily favored Hillary Clinton in Tuesday&#39;s presidential election, ending eight years of Democratic rule and sending the United States on a new, uncertain path. A wealthy real-estate developer and former reality TV host, Trump rode a wave of anger toward Washington insiders to win the White House race against Clinton, the Democratic candidate whose gold-plated establishment resume includes stints as a first lady, U.S. senator and secretary of state. Worried a Trump victory could cause economic and global uncertainty, investors were in full flight from risky assets such as stocks, and the U.S. dollar sank. In overnight trading, S&amp;P 500 index futures fell 5 percent to hit their so-called limit down levels, indicating they would not be permitted to trade any lower until regular U.S. stock market hours on Wednesday. The Associated Press and Fox News projected that Trump had collected just enough of the 270 state-by-state electoral votes needed to win a four-year term that starts on Jan. 20, taking battleground states where presidential elections are traditionally decided. Trump, appearing with his family before cheering supporters in a New York hotel ballroom, said it was time to heal the divisions caused by the campaign and find common ground. &quot;It is time for us to come together as one united people,&quot; Trump said. He praised Clinton for her service and said he had received a call from her to congratulate him on the win. &quot;I will be president for all Americans.&quot; READ MORE Poll shows Hillary Clinton on the verge of history Analysis: US winner must help heal wound in American politics Making a choice: Voters talk of decision and of tensions Trump had repeatedly slammed his campaign rival as &quot;crooked&quot; during their bruising campaign. A short time earlier, Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta told supporters at her election rally in New York to go home. &quot;We&#39;re not going to have anything more to say tonight,&quot; he said. Victorious in a cliffhanger race that opinion polls had forecast was Clinton&#39;s to win, Trump won avid support among a core base of white non-college educated workers with his promise to be the &quot;greatest jobs president that God ever created.&quot; In his victory speech, he said he had a great economic plan and would double U.S. economic growth and embark on a project of renewal. His win raises a host of questions for the United States at home and abroad. He campaigned on a pledge to take the country on a more isolationist, protectionist &quot;America First&quot; path. He has vowed to impose a 35 percent tariff on goods exported to the United States by U.S. companies that went abroad. Both candidates, albeit Trump more than Clinton, had historically low popularity ratings in an election that many voters characterized as a choice between two unpleasant alternatives. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 4 Next &raquo;