A doctors&#39; board has taken up a complaint against a surgeon accused of negligence. A Dr Musau is said have failed to honour an appointment with a patient who needed specialised treatment. The case follows a Facebook post by Mr David Kuria complaining the doctor had taken two days to attend to his mother who had been admitted to a city hospital. When the doctor showed up, Kuria says in the post, he was very arrogant when asked to explain why he had not attended to the patient. The doctor ordered the patient discharged. &quot;He was upset when we asked him why he took long to attend to our mother,&quot; Kuria says. Kuria said Dr Musau had directed that the patient be admitted and that he would be the one to attend to her. It was claimed the doctor had said he wanted the patient admitted so he could run tests on her. And yesterday, The Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board boss Daniel Yumbya said they have asked the doctor whom he identified as Christopher Musau, a neurosurgeon, to give an explanation within seven days. READ MORE 60 to benefit from constructive surgery in Kisumu County Rongo Sub-County Hospital driver arrested over attempted theft Crisis as medical staff in Murang'a join casual workers in protest Yumbya confirmed his office is aware of the case. He said he even spoke with Dr Musau on Thursday over the claims. &quot;We have already written to the doctor to submit a report on the matter,&quot; Yumbya said yesterday. However, Dr Musau denied the board had contacted him. &quot;I have not been contacted by the board and I do not know whether he (Kuria) has raised the issues with the board,&quot; said Musau. He called on the aggrieved party to report the matter to the doctors&#39; board. &quot;Instead of Facebook or going to the newspapers, he should file his complains with the board because that is the best way to deal with matters medical,&quot; said Musau. Kuria claimed the doctor was harsh to them when the pressed him to explain why he did not honour their appointment. He said he is afraid the matter may not be addressed because the doctor in question is too senior. &quot;We have incurred bills including pay for special care givers. Here we are, stuck with a patient requiring specialised care with no doctor in sight,&quot; wrote Kuria. &quot;How do I even begin to describe the sense of helplessness I feel. Not only have we incurred unnecessary bills, we have to start all over again. We have to find another specialist, wait for an appointment, take mum to their clinic and begin the hospitalisation process afresh.&quot; GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;