Kenya Forest Service has noted various newspaper articles alleging illegal logging in various counties and would wish to reply as follows: Part of the information is factual and positive, particularly on Karura Forest and mangrove forest resources at the Coast Conservancy. However, data on all plantations stocking density is recorded in compartment registers, a standard tool in forest plantation management. Sales inventory is done before allocation and portions of a plantation are marked for each licensee. If junior officers or the licensee allows poaching as alleged in the article, this can easily be cross-checked with reference to compartment registers. In addition, all loggers are licensed saw-millers, who have invested in saw-milling machinery and pay for allocated and assessed materials. Further, forest plantations mainly of cypress, pines and eucalyptus are grown in gazetted forests for commercial purposes, and are harvested at predetermined ages. They produce timber, poles, fuel wood and plywood for the thriving timber industries in Kenya. Kenya Forest Service allocates plantation materials earmarked for harvesting to prequalified saw-millers only. The pre-qualification exercise is conducted jointly by KFS, Timber Manufacturers Association and county governments. The allocated trees are paid for in full at pre-determined rates and removed only during the day. The harvested areas are opened for Shamba System (Plantation Establishment and Livelihood Improvement Scheme &ldquo;PELIS&rdquo;) for three years and farmers given seedlings to replant the areas. READ MORE Kenya government must act fast to stop illegal logging Villagers in Nyanza paying heavy price for destroying forests and water towers Stripping Kenya naked of her green cover This improves on plantation establishment and contributes to food security. Information on authorised allocations for the last one year in the areas mentioned in the newspaper article of Kaptagat in Elgeyo Marakwet County, Njukiini in Kirinyaga County, Gatare and Kimakia forests in Murang&rsquo;a County, Chuka in Tharaka Nithi County and Maji Mazuri, Narasha, Chemususu and Chemorgong in Baringo County can be inspected at the respective KFS offices at the forest stations, county and headquarters. Hammer marking is a control procedure used by foresters globally to track chain of custody. It is not possible to remove the revenue hammer mark, an imprint on the wood as alleged and transfer it to another log. The article alleges wanton destruction of forests in Kaptagat and Nandi. Regarding Kaptagat forest station, KFS notes there is continuous re -afforestation with inputs of various players and 16,000 hectares of the forests are well protected and the forest is regenerating. There is no logging taking place at night as alleged, all forest operations cease at 6pm. An operational base, with enforcement officers, is adjacent to the forest and any illegal activity is easily detected, as evidenced by the 64 cases that have been prosecuted in court in the current financial year. Nyakweri is a community forest owned by the Maasai under the County Government of Narok. Part of this forest measuring 20,000 hectares was invaded by illegal loggers and charcoal burners with the full knowledge of clan owners and local politicians. However, because KFS has an overall mandate to guard all types of forests and offer technical advice on management, once information was received of the ongoing destruction, the Service moved to secure it. The newspaper alleges collusion between junior officers and saw millers without the knowledge of senior officers. Forest rangers are in charge of forest beats and they work under the direction of a forest station manager on matters of forest management. There are daily and weekly forest protection reports that are available in every forest station that highlights areas of threat and action taken. Forest station managers also make weekly supervision in all forest beats. Kenya Forest Service is committed to safeguarding all forestry resources countrywide and enhancing forest cover to 10 percent as stipulated in Kenya&rsquo;s development blueprint, Vision 2030.