At least 9,000 additional soldiers are needed to facilitate the peace process in Somalia. The African Union Mission in Somalia (Amisom) however warned countries against using the troops they are contributing as a bargaining tool for power. &quot;States should not use Amisom troops to place demands,&quot; said Fransisco Madeira, the Special Representative of the Chairperson of the African Union Commission for Somalia (SRCC). &quot;These soldiers give so much, including their lives. It is better to find other avenues through which to make demands,&quot; he added. This came barely a week after Kenya began withdrawing close to 1,000 Kenya Defence Forces soldiers from the troubled South Sudan following a diplomatic tiff with the UN. President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered the withdrawal of Kenyan troops from the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS) after its Kenyan commander, Lt Johnson Ondieki, was sacked for allegedly failing to protect civilians when the war broke out in the world&#39;s youngest nation. READ MORE AMISOM requests for 9,000 more soldiers ahead of 2018 exit plans KDF retrieve two bodies from collapsed Kisii building bringing death toll to 9 Kisii house death toll up as owner alleges foul play Madeira said the mission faces serious logistical challenges ahead of the October 2018 exit deadline. He said Somaly&#39;s army is too thin, having only 10,900 trained soldiers against the required 20,000. &quot;Furthermore,&nbsp; the country&#39;s army is not well equipped ahead of the Amison exit and this is exactly where the problem is,&quot; said Madeira. Mr Madeira asked the United Nations to consider equipping the Somali soldiers who are being trained by Amisom countries. He further asked for the facilitation of firearms and other equipment to the army. &quot;We are training the Somali soldiers but you see, a soldier becomes one when he has a gun to fight. But there is fear that Somalia is full of guns hence the hesitation,&quot; said Madeira. He said through the training, they had already certified the Somali troops to fight alongside Amisom. However, they lacked firearms. The training is being given by Uganda, Turkey and Ethiopia among other nations. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;