After Donald Trump&rsquo;s win last week, a wag quipped that now she is convinced Jesus Christ might come earlier than expected. Before he comes, we may want to analyse what is likely to happen to us in Kenya and Africa with the controversial billionaire ruling the most powerful nation in the world. Politicians are notoriously pragmatic animals, to use the most charitable words. They are worried about their re-election and legacy. So don&rsquo;t be surprised if it turns out that &lsquo;the Donald&rsquo; was just playing to the gallery. If this turns out to be the case, he becomes one of the greatest masters of mass psychology in history,second only to Adolf Hitler. The thing is that Trump expertly tapped on people&rsquo;s disgruntlement with the elite rulers in Washington, a feeling fuelled by rapid globalisation. He identified with the people Hillary Clinton once described as &lsquo;deplorables&rsquo;. His clarion call &lsquo;Drain the swamp&rsquo; resonated with the voters. It is like the protest that swept Moi and Kanu out of power in 2002. Only worse, because it is about to impact on the whole world. READ MORE Trump will get wake-up call when he takes office, Obama says America in good company on elections Europeans agree defense plan after campaign swipes by Trump For us, the main concern should be whether this &lsquo;America first&rsquo; will lead to cutting US funding on programmes in Kenya which range from HIV/AIDs to electoral reforms and energy. Or whether Trump will be less concerned with security in the horn of Africa as he goes after ISIS. The man has expressed his dislike for foreign aid, saying it would rather be used on US farmers and the homeless. Maybe he will cancel foreign aid. Maybe someone will advise him that the US spends less than one per cent aid from its $4 trillion annual budget, around $35 billion while US agriculture gobbles up over $150 billion, much of it squandered. For Africa, the worry should not really be if he is going to undo AGOA, a protocol that allows the continent to export some products to the US duty free. Rather, what should worry is Trump&rsquo;s dislike for regime change, and &lsquo;his preference for not criticising human rights violation&rsquo; as Rami Khouri of the American University of Beirut put it. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;