President Donald J Trump. Even after hearing it repeated ad nauseum, it&rsquo;s still shocking that The Apprentice Boss will soon be the leader of the free world. In May this year I penned a piece titled &ldquo;Trump&rsquo;s US success should help us rethink our politics&rdquo; in which I alluded to a possible Trump win if Hillary&rsquo;s supporters continued to assume that this TV celebrity was just a buffoon who was absolutely un-electable. I hate to have been proved right. What I find amazing is the simplicity of most of the analysis of Trump&rsquo;s win. Many Kenyans believe that the Trump win is confirmation that America is irredeemably racist and sexist, that Trump&rsquo;s win is America&rsquo;s reaction to eight years of a black presidency and it&rsquo;s unwillingness to contemplate a woman president. Don&rsquo;t get me wrong. America has a large constituency of racists and misogynists. We must remember that America only allowed its women to vote in the 20s and blacks only in 1965. Trumps language was laced with deeply offensive racial and sexist overtones which many of his supporters seemed to revel in. There&rsquo;s no question that some racism and sexism coloured the tenor of the campaign and informed some of the Donald&rsquo;s support. But let us not forget that this same country four years ago elected Barak Hussein Obama for a second term to the White House against the ultimate symbol of whiteness, Mitt Romney whose wife is known for equestrian competitions. Let us also not forget that Hillary Clinton still won the majority vote, elected by almost 60 million Americans. I believe Trump won the White House principally due to the feelings of exclusion that many Americans, particularly white Americans, have felt as the world has changed, a fear of the world they are having to confront in which &ldquo;outsiders&rdquo; space is expanding and the feeling that they had been ignored by the Washington leadership. Donald Trump having been in showbiz for a significant part of his life read the public well. He must have realized that his strongman image would sell in a country lost and looking for a saviour, and that an &ldquo;us&rsquo; against &ldquo;them&rdquo; message would resonate well with a frustrated electorate. To win, all he needed to do was to expand the &ldquo;us&rdquo; coalition and ensure that his opponents were the poster children of the &ldquo;them&rdquo;. The latter is how he managed to vanquish Jeb Bush and other opponents during the Republican primaries and ultimately defeat Hillary in the finals. Is Kenya ripe for a Trump-like tsunami? I fear so. There is no doubt that the same resentment of the status quo, which informed Trump&rsquo;s victory exists in Kenya. It may have been reduced somewhat with the promise of a new Constitution, particularly devolution, but it exists nevertheless and is expanding. READ MORE Let&rsquo;s all rise and say no to divisive campaigns Trump win echoes Kibaki&rsquo;s 2002 election triumph Clinton blames FBI's Comey for her defeat in call with donors If the opposition sustains the narrative that Jubilee is irredeemably corrupt, if the unemployed youth bulge continues to expand without Marshall Plan like attention, if the space between the privileged and the rest continues to enlarge, the Trump momentum will naturally build. What the momentum may lack is an authentic force with the Trump gravitas for it to revolve around. That authenticity and freshness does not exist in the current opposition; its leading flag bearers are a former Prime Minister and two former Vice Presidents. It is difficult for them to sell an outsider image. The challenge with Trump like movements, just like the Brexit tsunami is that they lead to irrational decisions, like the election of a confessed bigot and misogynist to the American presidency. Any reasonable government must invest in avoiding them. Such investment will involve, inter alia, a people-centered development agenda that recognises that people are struggling and that seeks innovative ways of addressing their concerns. It requires an overt commitment to infuse positive leadership ethos at the highest levels of government. It demands inclusion at critical levels of governing so that everyone feels they are a part of this great country. In the absence of deliberate action, it is only a matter of time before we have our own Trump disaster, which will be a worse tragedy since constitutional checks and balances, which in America will temper Trump&rsquo;s excesses, are still at infancy.