The Nyeri county government has sued the assembly over the budget dispute that is threatening to stall county operations. Through lawyer Muriuki Ngunjiri, the acting Finance Executive Charles Githinji filed a motion seeking orders to have the Controller of Budget allow the county to withdraw 75 per cent of its budget estimates. The county government also wants the court to issue orders directing the clerk of the county assembly to provide a progress report on the practical steps taken to enact the reviewed budget estimates. Governor Nderitu Gachagua declined to assent to budget estimates passed on June 30 by the assembly after MCAs made alterations to the document. The executive accused the assembly of making changes to the budget and passing it contrary to the Constitution. As a result, the county has been operating on half of its total budget estimates. High Court judge Jairus Ngaah Thursday certified the petition as urgent but declined to grant the orders sought by the county. READ MORE MCAs&rsquo; report says most ECDE projects poorly done Nderitu Gachagua and MCAs snub Mashujaa celebrations KRA blamed for shortfall in county funds allocation &quot;Based on the material before me, I am not satisfied that the orders sought can be granted before the county assembly and the Controller of Budget have been heard,&quot; he ruled. Resolve stand-off Through an affidavit before court, Dr Githinji said following the budget stalemate, he had met with the assembly and Controller of Budget in an attempt to resolve the stand-off. He submitted that he had meetings with the county assembly but the MCAs raised irrelevant reasons regarding the reviewed estimates. Meanwhile, the Employment and Labour Relations Court has ordered striking doctors to go back to work immediately even as the county said there were no funds to meet the medics&#39; demands. Justice Byram Ongaya also gave the county three days to produce in court a report showing the steps taken to end the strike. The doctors have been on strike for the last two weeks demanding more staff, promotions and training opportunities. The county admitted in court that it could not meet its financial obligations owing to the budget standoff between the executive and the assembly. The county has also accused the doctors of lacking any goodwill in the ongoing negotiations by giving short timelines to have their grievances addressed. Githinji submitted that the assembly had not indicated when it would debate the budget despite agreeing on new figures. &quot;In view of service delivery, which has stalled, the executive wants additional funds withdrawn from county revenue funds,&quot; he said. The county also requested the court to direct the assembly to file a report within seven days on steps it is taking to ensure the budget is approved. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;