An irrigation project by Murang&rsquo;a County Government has transformed lives of residents of Kandara Sub-County. The Ajibika Irrigation Scheme has seen residents of the poverty stricken region engage in commercial horticultural farming. Small-scale farmers in the six villages of Ithiru and Ruchu wards have reaped benefits of the Sh100 million programme because of the 24-hour availability of piped water from Ruchu River to irrigate their farms and for domestic purposes. The farmers in upper and lower Kahiga, Chichu, Kaguthi, Ngoe and Gacharage have for the last 30 years struggled to raise funds to implement the project but water scarcity shuttered their dreams. They are now calling for expansion of the project to benefit more people. Kandara sub-county administrator Beatrice Gicheha said the project was designed to benefit 500 households. READ MORE Sh600m set aside to buy livestock through KMC Kenyans starve as plenty crops rot in farms Wait a minute, that colourful plant could be poisonous to your herd Agricultural extension officers visit farmers and provide advice on the modern farming practices. &ldquo;The project was launched in 2014 after residents identified it as their priority. We have availed market for the farmers and they no longer have to go for vegetables from Karatina, Kagio and Mwea markets,&rdquo; said Gicheha. The results have been largely beneficial as Peter Maina and his wife Bancy Wangui reveal. The couple have settled in their parents&rsquo; three-acre piece of land and emerged the leading vegetable farmers who have taken over Kandara market, which previously used to receive supplies from Karatina and Kagio markets. Wangui has described the project as God sent, saying a majority of farmers previously depended on water pumps, which were expensive to run and maintain. &ldquo;As a young family we have benefited from the project and with daily income from our farm produce our lives have been transformed,&rdquo; said Wangui. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;