Political parties are expecting to rake in millions of shillings in nomination fees from those seeking seats in next year&#39;s elections. ODM has opened applications for those intending to run on the party&#39;s ticket, with the deadline set for end of the month.&nbsp; Raila Odinga&#39;s party has imposed fees for various seats ranging from Sh15,000 to Sh1 million for the presidential ticket. Jubilee Party officials were in a meeting at the weekend to plan their elections plan, including the nomination fees. Ford Kenya will decide on what to charge aspirants later this month. ODM&#39;s National Elections Board led by Judith Pareno set the fees for those seeking the presidential ticket at Sh1 million, governor (Sh500,000), MP (Sh250,000) and ward representative at Sh25,000. Those classified under special interest groups including people with disabilities, women and youths will pay Sh15,000. READ MORE Tribal alliances will not win you votes, Kidero tells Jubilee Fallout looms in Mt Kenya over Jubilee Party campaign team Put Uhuru&rsquo;s re-election bid first, aspirants urged ODM could rake in more than Sh244 million, which will be used to fund her primaries slated for February next year. In an advert published in the dailies, ODM&#39;s National Elections Board outlined requirements for the candidates wishing to participate in the nominations. set rules Those still serving in the public service will enjoy a grace period of up to February when they will be required to resign and get into the nomination exercise while others have until November 30 to submit their applications. The party may also exempt an applicant from such requirement subject to any condition it may deem fit. The applicants for the presidential and gubernatorial seats must also be in possession of a degree certificate from a university recognised in Kenya and must not be in arrears of any contributions to the party. Applicants have until November 30 to officially submit their applications. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;