AMERICA: Protesters demonstrating against the election of Donald Trump gathered in several U.S. cities for a third night on Friday, hours after the president-elect praised their &quot;passion&quot;. Thousands took to the streets in Miami, Atlanta, Philadelphia, New York, San Francisco and Portland, Oregon, voicing anger at Trump&#39;s inflammatory and often deeply controversial campaign rhetoric about immigrants, Muslims and women. In downtown Portland, protesters blocked traffic and threw objects at police dressed in riot gear who responded with pepper spray and flash-bang devices. At one point, police pushed protesters back and appeared to take at least one person into custody, according to footage on a local NBC affiliate. Hundreds of protesters marched through the streets of Los Angeles, blocking traffic as they waved signs in opposition of Trump and chanted &quot;We reject the president elect&quot; and &quot;Whose streets? Our Streets&quot;. Earlier in the night, several thousand activists marched through downtown Miami, with a few hundred making their way onto a highway, halting traffic in both directions. In New York, demonstrators again gathered in Washington Square Park and by Trump Tower, where the Republican president-elect lives, on Fifth Avenue. READ MORE Democratic Party reckoning begins as Obama prepares to leave White House Trump&rsquo;s victory a reversal of fortune for Obama Trump vs Obama: The stark differences and open similarities Trump, who initially denounced Americans who protested against his election, saying they had been &quot;incited&quot; by the media, reversed course and praised them on Friday. &quot;Love the fact that the small groups of protesters last night have passion for our great country. We will all come together and be proud!&quot; Trump said on Twitter. The tweets were further evidence of Trump&#39;s mixed messages since he announced his candidacy 17 months ago. After Democrat Hillary Clinton conceded defeat early on Wednesday, he took a far more conciliatory tone than he had often displayed during his campaign and promised to be a president for all Americans. Police in Portland arrested at least 26 people on Thursday after protesters threw objects, damaging new cars at a dealership and vandalized buildings. In Los Angeles on Thursday night, police arrested about 185 people, mostly for blocking roadways or being juveniles out past curfew, according to police. One officer was hospitalized for injuries suffered during the protest. Anti-Trump demonstrators have voiced concerns that his presidency, due to start on Jan. 20, would infringe on Americans&#39; civil and human rights. They cited his campaign promises to restrict immigration and register Muslims, as well as allegations the former reality-TV star sexually abused women. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;