Heavy machinery working at Gathigiriri and Ndomba settlement sites in Kirinyaga County where Thiba multibillion dam is to be constructed. (Photo: Munene Kamau/Standard) Farmers who were relocated to pave way for Thiba dam project have started moving back to the site. Some of the farmers who were relocated to Ndomba and Gathigiriri villages have complained of lack of basic amenities at their new homes, while others say the Government is yet to pay them Sh330 million as earlier promised. When he visited the area a month ago, Water and Irrigation Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa promised the farmers that they would receive their compensation before the end of last month. Those affected by the project include some families at the proposed dam site and scores of others at the irrigation area in Kandongu, Mwea Rice Scheme. The much-hyped project is now one and half years behind schedule. READ MORE Water CS Wamalwa lures Murang'a with Sh250m to back project Consider facts on the water project, Wamalwa now tells critics Parastatals in water sector to respond to drought in coast, North Eastern In August, Water and Irrigation Principal Secretary Mwangi Nduati toured the area in what he said was preparation for a ground breaking ceremony, which was to be officiated by Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and President Uhuru Kenyatta. &nbsp;Fresh demands The Premier was in Kenya for the first Tokyo International Conference of Africa&#39;s Development and it was expected that he would visit the dam site and perform a groundbreaking ceremony. Monday, the farmers said they would remain at the site until their money is released. They also made fresh demands for compensation for losses they were experiencing while living without appropriate shelter. &quot;As long as the Government does not pay us our dues, we will remain at the dam site and even cultivate our shambas for subsistence purposes,&quot; said Julius Cuita, a beneficiary. The NIB Resettlement Implementation Officer Julius M&#39;ruchiu was not immediately available for comment. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;