A businessman&rsquo;s entry into Kiambu gubernatorial race has added a new spin into the county&rsquo;s highly competitive politics. David Kariuki Ngari, commonly known as Gakuyo has complicated matters in the race that was widely perceived to be a two-horse between Governor William Kabogo and Kabete MP Ferdinand Waititu. Political analysts say this will be a tough race, adding that the duo will now have to go back to the drawing board and see if there is need to review their tactics. Although both Kabogo and Waititu are yet to personally comment about the wealthy trader&rsquo;s candidature, their close allies have acknowledged that his entry is a setback. Both camps seem uncomfortable with Gakuyo&rsquo;s candidature due to his impressive track record at his Gakuyo Real Estate and Ekeza Sacco where he is CEO and Chairman respectively. He is also a renowned General Overseer Bishop of Calvary Chosen Centre Church and the Chairman of the Clergy alliance. This is seen as an added advantage because he can capitalise on it and use the church to marshal grassroots support. He has told off critics faulting him for joining politics saying he is not afraid of any mudslinging adding he is ready for the battle. READ MORE Let&rsquo;s all rise and say no to divisive campaigns Wiper issues fresh summonses to rebel leaders Kirinyaga County aspirants told to prepare for joint rallies &ldquo;Where there is mud there is water to wash away the dirt. When we fail to see any development, we cannot continue to stay back in the church and watch as the county goes to the dogs. In fact, true men are in the church. There is nobody who can fight better than a preacher,&rdquo; he said. An insider at one of his rival camp who did not want to be named said: &ldquo;It is true his entry into the governorship race has come as a game changer. It is something that cannot be overlooked. His record which speaks for itself, is something he can easily ride on to capture the seat&rdquo;. Speaking in Kiambu town last Wednesday when officially launched his bid, Gakuyo said his outstanding managerial skills, which have seen him successfully steer the real estate firm and Ekeza Sacco will come in handy in running the county. He pledged to offer &lsquo;transformative and collaborative leadership with strong emphasis on accountability and economic empowerment to the people&rsquo;. He said if elected, he would make the county an economic powerhouse by implementing sound economic policies that will help transform the livelihoods of the residents. Gatundu North MP Kigo Njenga has welcomed Gakuyo&rsquo;s candidature saying it was within his democratic right to vie. He is, however, yet to decide on whom to support. He is now urging residents to elect a governor who will help improve their economic welfare and unify the county.