A photograph in yesterday&rsquo;s Standard capturing police officers&mdash;armed to the teeth&mdash;raiding a learning centre to arrest teachers conducting holiday tuition, was disturbing on many fronts. First, the cocky police officers looked quite intimidating with their dangerous weapons in the presence of bemused pre-schoolers. This, a day after a police officer had mistakenly discharged his firearm as Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education examination papers were being unsealed, leaving one bystander fighting for his life after he was hit by a stray bullet. But perhaps more germane, why put so much zeal on such a mundane assignment when criminals are running amok elsewhere and terrorising Kenyans. Two incidents this week illustrate different aspects to policing&mdash; one is the misuse of officers, and the other the carelessness with which security personnel handle their firearms. The Kenya Police Service has in the past bemoaned its shortage of personnel, and has attributed its inability to render efficient services to the low number of law enforcement officers. The question then begs, if this is the case, why would scores of officers be deployed to a learning centre with vulnerable children being attended to by harmless volunteers and teachers offering tuition? Was this centre a security threat? The officer in command has some explaining to do over the misuse of security personnel. And especially when hundreds of thousands of Kenyans are left to the own devices as crime soars in all parts of the country. Just this week, a woman and her daughters were gang-raped in Isinya just a few metres from a police station. The mother later died. For police officers to earn the respect of those they serve, they must demonstrate that they are prepared to go the extra mile to protect lives and property. They must demonstrate an ability to get a handle of the growing incidents of muggings and peddling of illegal drugs in urban areas. READ MORE KCSE candidate gives birth, names newborn baby after Matiang&rsquo;i Pray thee, get us more Matiang&rsquo;is Education CS says stringent exam regulations will extend to marking Cattle rustling in northern Kenya, cane poaching in western Kenya and the theft coffee parchments in the Mt Kenya region are agonisingly rampant. Police commanders must weigh security assignments carefully and ensure the personnel deployed meet the security threat level, especially now. The holiday season is often a time when crime soars and civilians become more vulnerable. Utmost efficiency will be called for during this period to deal with the security threats that emerge