Maasai Mara University main campus has been closed indefinitely after student riots over beating and injuring of a comrade in a suspected love-triangle incident. The students staged protests Thursday decrying&nbsp;the beating of their colleague by boda boda operators on suspicion of having an affair with one of the riders&#39; wife. The enraged students barricaded Narok-Bomet road at the junction to the university and called for justice for one of their own who was allegedly attacked by a group of boda boda riders and is admitted at Narok County Referral Hospital. Police in the swoop over the rioters arrested scores of students as well as the boda boda operators who beat the student. In an&nbsp;internal memo dated November 17, 2016 the university through the Registrar, Academic Affairs Dr Otieno Fredrick Onyango announced immediate closure of the institution till further notice. &quot;Following the students unrest during which&nbsp;one of them was&nbsp;injured on the night of November 16 outside the campus, senate in its sitting has authorised the indefinite closure of the university with immediate effect,&quot; read the memo in part. READ MORE College students in Nyeri decry end of lab courses Crisis as medical staff in Murang'a join casual workers in protest Rights groups launch weekly anti-graft protests in Mombasa The letter further directed all the students to vacate the university premises immediately. However, not all campuses will be affected by the closure as the Town Campus which mainly comprises&nbsp;self-sponsored students as well as school-based programmes is still operational. The letter however caused sharp reaction from the students who accused the university management of hiding under the unrest to close the campus to avoid the looming strike over challenges the university has been facing. The university has been facing teething challenges and recently, part-time lecturers downed their tools demanding over Sh100Million in unpaid salaries. The lecturers through their representatives said they have been going without pay since 2013 and the institution has failed to fulfill their promises of paying them promptly. The Part-time lecturers Association officials led by Chairman Joshua Bore, Vice Chair Anthony Pareiyo, Organising Secretary Josephat Ogega and Robert Naija (Secretary General) said they had to form an association to champion for their pay rights. Recently,University Council Chairman John Okumu suspended Prof Misia Kadenyi who was in-charge of Academic,Research and student affairs over failure to streamline her department.