Jubilee Party is expanding its presidential campaign team to include disgruntled members in the list of officials. President Uhuru Kenyatta&#39;s national campaign team yesterday said it was crafting an elaborate campaign structure that would absorb more members into the presidential campaign committee. The party ran into headwinds on November 4 when Mr Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto unveiled a 61-member campaign committee, sparking uproar from members who demanded more names be included in the list. Meru Senator Kiraitu Murungi said head of Jubilee campaign secretariat Raphael Tuju had been mandated to establish county, sub-county and ward presidential campaign teams. &quot;In the next one month or so he (Tuju) is going to establish county, sub-county and ward presidential campaign teams,&quot; announced Murungi. Party aspirants in particular had complained elected leaders named to the team could use their positions to influence nominations or project themselves as the Jubilee leadership&#39;s favourites. READ MORE Tribal alliances will not win you votes, Kidero tells Jubilee Political parties in Kenya to raise millions from aspirants Ruto and Joho in spat over corruption under Jubilee Yesterday, the campaign team held a meeting at the party&#39;s headquarters in Nairobi to deliberate on the looming nominations. The inclusion of politicians in the campaign team caused uproar among members who claimed they would use their positions to influence the party primaries. During the party&#39;s Special National Governing Council at Bomas of Kenya, delegates surged towards the dais to submit additional names, forcing Mr Ruto to tell them to make proposals on the issues that had been left out. FAVOURED DEFECTORS There has been disquiet in North Rift and Nyeri, among other Jubilee strongholds, over alleged lack of proper representation in the campaign team. Some members have also raised concerns over claims the party had favoured defectors from other political parties. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;