After the management of the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) examinations last week, the government is now facing the challenge of guarding the month-long Form Four tests. Some 577,079 candidates will sit the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) starting tomorrow, with the government keeping secret its strategy to secure the examinations. During last year&rsquo;s examinations, 5,101 KCSE candidates had their results cancelled against 2,701 KCPE candidates. This means that the Form Four examinations pose the greatest management challenge given the duration of their administration. The tests will end on November 30. An ethics manual by the Kenya National Examinations Council (Knec) says the government is committed to secure the examination. The manual draws candidates&rsquo; attention to the various forms of cheating that will be keenly observed. It also lists the roles of candidates, principals, invigilators, supervisors and security personnel and cites various sections of the Knec Act that will be invoked in the event of a breach. &ldquo;The different forms of cheating include collusion, indiscipline during examinations time and smuggling of unauthorised materials into examination rooms,&rdquo; reads the document signed by acting Knec Chief Executive Officer Mercy Karogo. READ MORE CS Matiang'i restored credibility of KCPE exams We must teach children positive values during the long holidays Two AP officers hospitalised after shooting each other while guarding KCPE exam Delivery of the examination papers to most regions will be done daily to limit contact hours with the papers. A spot check across the country revealed preparations for the tests were in top gear. &ldquo;I will give information when the examination starts on Monday and not now,&rdquo; Western region County Commissioner Kang&rsquo;ethe Thuku said on phone. Lubinu Boys Principal, Peter Omutiti said his students are prepared for the examinations. &ldquo;We have thoroughly prepared our students and we appreciate the ministry&rsquo;s efforts in curbing cheating,&rdquo; said Mr Omutiti. St Matias Mwitoti Secondary Principal Chrispinus Owino said candidates will reap what they have sowed. In Nyanza region, teachers, Ministry of Education and TSC officials pitched camp in schools to ensure things run smoothly. At Otieno Oyoo Secondary School in Kisumu County, Principal Charles Hongo counseled 308 candidates through examination rules. In 2015, the school&rsquo;s Biology results were cancelled over irregularities. &ldquo;We have had a series of meetings with the candidates to take them through the new examination rules,&rdquo; Mr Hongo said. At Onjiko Boys where two dormitories housing 150 students were razed, rehearsals were successful. Nyanza Regional Police Coordinator Willy Lugusa said every secondary school in the region was under tight security. &ldquo;We have beefed up in the six counties in Nyanza and all will go well,&rdquo; he said. Principals of most of the schools in the North Rift region said they were well prepared. Kapsabet Girls High School principal, Susan Chelang&rsquo;a, said the school expects to perform well. &ldquo;Our candidates have prepared well for the examinations and we expect to perform better than last year,&rdquo; said Ms Chelang&rsquo;a. &ldquo;We have created a conducive environment for the candidates,&rdquo; said Mr Kipchumba Maiyo, the Principal of Kapsabet Boys High School in Nandi. In Nyeri, more than 170 secondary schools were under tight security. &ldquo;Everything is set; security and school officials are aware of what is expected of them. We expect the examinations to go on without a hitch,&rdquo; Nyeri County Director for Education Fred Kiiru said. In Mombasa, Coast Regional Coordinator Nelson Marwa said security has been beefed up in schools across the six counties. &ldquo;Security has been put in place in all secondary schools. We expect the examinations to start without hiccups,&rdquo; Mr Marwa said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;