A local newspaper announced with glee, &#39;Kenyan women would rather have men in any leadership position, survey says&#39;. It would seem stating the obvious makes for news in Kenya. The prevalence of misogyny in a patriarchal and highly conservative society should surprise no one, certainly not journalists. Rather, the survey simply underscores what feminists and female politicians have long stated about the Kenyan electorate. Unless, by law, gender inclusion and representation becomes institutionalised and part of the political structure, women will never gain gender equality or representation. If anything, the survey simply amplifies the very reasons as to why the two-thirds gender principle was put into the Constitution. A conservative society like ours will always defer to men, seeing them as bearers of power. The entire electorate will vote on the &ldquo;potential&rdquo; of the man, versus the actual merit and resume of the woman. READ MORE Solving Kenya&rsquo;s malnutrition paradox Stage set for Kenya Open boxing tourney Railways scheme sits on Sh30b as thousands of retirees live in misery Thus, the election campaign will be littered with litanies against, for example, Ms Anne Waiguru, Ms Martha Karua, Ms Millie Odhiambo or Madam Charity Ngilu based on their previous performances in leadership, versus the vague election promises of their male rivals. In fact, it is public knowledge that any woman who chooses to vie for an electoral seat versus a man will ultimately face the most disgusting and most personalised slander, from being called &ldquo;flower girls&rdquo; to the allusion of sexual impropriety with party or Government leaders. The surprising outcome of the US elections underscores this. As much as we would like to pretend that the United States is a liberal society, the slow recovery from the 2008 economic meltdown and a global spread of fascist white supremacy, dressed as nationalism was tapped into by the Republican Party and used by Donald Trump&rsquo;s campaign. Bigotry in America was finally at its most visible in the past one year. An outright disregard for the rights of ethnic, sexual and religious minorities complete with threats made directly to millions of minorities throughout Trump&rsquo;s campaign, meant that it was clear Donald Trump was all about upholding the power and privileges&rsquo; of the white population. This most certainly affected the first female presidential candidate. Bigotry is never limited; rather it will target even those considered part of the white elite, especially because Hillary Clinton is a woman. The result was a theatre of the absurd. A woman with over 40 years of experience in politics and governance won the popular vote but still lost the election to a man who had no experience and no plan, just a four-word statement: &ldquo;Make America Great Again&rdquo;. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;