&nbsp;{Photo:Courtesy}Washington:Republicans in Missouri and Vermont won competitive governor&#39;s races on Tuesday, though most of the 12 contests left power in the hands of the incumbent party. In most of the first eight states where results were released by late evening, the party that had held the governor&#39;s mansion fended off its challenger.&nbsp; Here are the results.&nbsp;MISSOURIIn one of the year&#39;s closest gubernatorial races, Republican former Navy SEAL Eric Greitens edged Democrat Chris Koster, the state&#39;s attorney general. Greitens will succeed Governor Jay Nixon, a Democrat who has served the maximum two terms in office.VERMONTVermont elected a Republican, Lieutenant Governor Phil Scott, over Democrat Sue Minter, a former state transportation secretary. Scott succeeds retiring Governor Peter Shumlin, a Democrat, for a two-year term.OREGONDemocratic Governor Kate Brown held off a challenge by Republican Bud Pierce, an oncologist. Brown was sworn in last year after her predecessor, John Kitzhaber, resigned in scandal. The election is for the final two years of Kitzhaber&#39;s term.INDIANARepublican Eric Holcomb, currently the state&#39;s lieutenant governor, beat Democrat John Gregg, a former state lawmaker. Holcomb entered the race after current Governor Mike Pence opted not to seek re-election in July when Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump chose him as his vice presidential running mate.WEST VIRGINIADemocratic businessman Jim Justice beat Republican state Senate President Bill Cole. Democratic Governor Earl Ray Tomblin was barred by term limits from running again.UTAHIncumbent Governor Gary Herbert, a Republican, won his re-election race against Democrat Mike Weinholtz, a healthcare executive. Herbert, who took office in 2009 after his predecessor, Jon Huntsman, resigned, won a second full term.NORTH DAKOTARepublican Doug Burgum, a former Microsoft Corp executive, defeated Democratic State Representative Marvin Nelson in the solidly Republican state. Governor Jack Dalrymple, a Republican who was eligible to run for re-election in 2016, declined to seek another term.DELAWAREDemocrat John Carney, a member of the U.S. House of Representatives, beat Republican Colin Bonini, a state senator. Democratic Governor Jack Markell was prohibited by term limits from running for re-election to the position he has held since 2009.NORTH CAROLINADrawing national attention because of a debate over transgender rights, Republican Governor Pat McCrory is seeking a second term against Roy Cooper, a Democrat who has been the state&#39;s attorney general since 2001. The race remained too close for networks to call on Tuesday evening.MONTANADemocratic Governor Steve Bullock is battling Republican tech entrepreneur Greg Gianforte to keep his seat. The race remained too close for networks to call on Tuesday evening.NEW HAMPSHIREDemocrat Colin Van Ostern is running against Republican Chris Sununu. Both are members of the state&#39;s Executive Council, which helps to administer state government, and are seeking to succeed Democratic Governor Maggie Hassan, who is running for the U.S. Senate. The term is two years. The race remained too close for networks to call on Tuesday evening.WASHINGTONDemocratic Governor Jay Inslee faces a challenge from Republican Bill Bryant, a businessman and former commissioner of the Port of Seattle. Polls closed at 11 p.