A former Cabinet minister has warned Jubilee of consequences if it does not appoint key people from Rift Valley to its campaign team. Former Roads Minister Franklin Bett said ignoring key North and South Rift leaders was ill-advised and would boomerang on the party&#39;s top leadership. &quot;Why would you assume, the two regions, with its governors, senators and MPs, someone could be making serious blunders. Uhuru and his deputy are no longer interested in the region&#39;s support,&quot; observed Bett. Three weeks ago, President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy, William Ruto, read out a list of members who would spearhead campaigns for Jubilee in the country. Not a single one of them came from five counties in Rift Valley. In the list that has the who-is-who in the Jubilee Party political hierarchy, not a single politician from Nandi, Kericho, Uasin Gishu, Baringo and Elgeyo Marakwet was included in President Kenyatta&#39;s 2017 campaign secretariat. The 61-member list that will steer the Jubilee Party campaigns across the country has received lukewarm reception in Rift Valley as it emerged that leaders from five counties that form the political bedrock of Ruto were given a wide berth. READ MORE Jubilee and CORD clash on role of outgoing IEBC team Those seeking to head IEBC IEBC would spend over Sh4b on Jubilee Party's primaries, says ODM OVER CONFIDENT Bett said that whoever drew the list was either over confident that the Jubilee Party was so popular in the region, or wanted to sabotage the growth of the party in the counties that overwhelmingly voted for Uhuru in 2013. National Assembly Deputy Speaker Joyce Laboso, Senator John Munyes (Turkana) and womnn representatives Joyce Emanikor (Turkana), Soipan Tuya (Narok) and Janet Nangabo (Trans Nzoia) are some of the representatives from the vast and populous Rift Valley region in the Jubilee campaign team list that was unveiled to party members during a Special National Delegate Congress at the Bomas of Kenya recently.