Attorney General Githu Muigai has been enjoined in a Sh87 billion landmark constitutional petition against a State agency. The petition by Governor Paul Chepkwony&#39;s administration is seeking Sh87 billion from the Kenya Tea Development Agency (KTDA) on behalf of small-scale tea farmers whom the county boss claims have been exploited for a long time. Justices Hedwig Ong&#39;udi, David Majanja and Hillary Chemitei said the issues raised are matters of national interest and the AG, as the Government&#39;s principal adviser, is a necessary party. In their 15-page ruling, Justices Ong&#39;udi, Majanja and Chemitei also enjoined the Council of Governors (CoG) as well as Meru and Murang&#39;a counties as interested parties in the suit. &quot;Although the Council of Governors is an incorporated body established under the Intergovernmental Relations Act, we think the fact that it is unincorporated does not necessarily deny it capacity to litigate claims,&quot; said Justice Chemitei. They judges said Murang&#39;a and Meru counties were enjoined based on the allegations that KTDA has allegedly been unjustifiably offering better prices to tea farmers in Eastern region, to the disadvantage of farmers in western region. The petition says this violates Article 27 of the Constitution. READ MORE Firm sues to block Sh3.5b hydro projects Kenya mulls law to punish unruly airline passengers Lawyer wants AG grilled over Sh49m KBC suit The judges nonetheless struck out an application by 1,000 farmers to be enjoined as interested parties as well as 26 respondents who had been listed in the original petition No. 18 of 2014. &quot;In our view, the principal party is Kenya Tea Development Agency (KTDA). We also think that any allegations against them can be competently dealt with by KTDA,&quot; said Justice Chemitei. The court ordered governor Chepkwony to amend the petition filed on January 6 with KTDA as the first respondent, the Agriculture and Fisheries and Food Authority and the AG as the second and third respondents respectively. &quot;The amended petition shall be filed and served to all parties within 14 days and the parties served, including interested parties, shall be at liberty to file their respective responses with 14 days of service,&quot; said Justice Chemitei. However, it was a relief for Chepkwony after the court dismissed the respondents&#39; demands for the governor to bear the cost of the suit. &quot;The issues raised by the petitioner are not frivolous and the case has been brought in public interest. We are therefore reluctant to impose costs on the petitioner,&quot; said Justice Chemitei. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;