The court has stopped issuance of title deeds to the Mwea Settlement Scheme in Embu County until further notice. So far, 7,232 title deeds have been issued by Embu County Government. Last week, Mbeere South MP Mutava Musyimi moved to court to block issuance of the processed titles since the parties had not used arbitration as directed by the court in October on all allocations. MP Musyimi wants people currently residing on the land be given priority on allocations, followed by residents of Mbeere South. PARTICIPATORY PROCESS Meanwhile, even as controversy on the issuance of the titles deepens, beneficiaries are overjoyed that they have finally received the crucial documents while those who missed out have vowed to resist being evicted from their shambas. The demarcation and allotment of the 17,000 hectare land had failed to kick off since the 1970s due to disagreements by the various parties. READ MORE Two Bomet women arraigned in court over FGM Court directs JSC and SRC to resolve stand-off on allowances You'll lose your land if it stays idle for 10 years But over the years, the Embu County Government, National Land Commission and the Ministry of Lands spearheaded the process prompting elder groups laying claim to the land to withdraw various court cases. &nbsp;And following this progress, last week, the County Government started issuing the titles for the settlement scheme to the beneficiaries at the Mbeere Land Registry in Siakago. County Lands Executive Member Josphat Kithumbu said on completion of the scheme titles, they will immediately start issuing titles for Riachina, Gichiche and Kamarandi adjudication sections bringing the total number of titles to be issued to more than 20,000. Kithumbu said the intricate processes that culminated into issuing of the titles was above board and legal. &ldquo;We started issuing licenses following an advisory from the Attorney General&rsquo;s office that all court cases barring issuance had been vacated on October 5,&rdquo; said Kithumbu. But it appears like the move by Embu Nyangi Ndiiriri elders, Kirinyaga elders and Musyimi to move to court presents a fresh twist to the process. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 4 Next &raquo;