The Government has embarked on surveying public school lands in order to issue them with title deeds. The National Land Commission (NLC) in partnership with Shule Yangu Alliance seeks to expedite the titling of over 24,000 public utilities that are at risk of being grabbed by unscrupulous individuals. The commission said it had revoked more than 4,000 land titles, including school land in the past three years that had been grabbed. Speaking at Kimalel Primary School in Uasin Gishu County during the launch of the pilot programme which seeks to audit, survey, title and protect all school land, NLC chairperson Prof Muhammad Swazuri said the slow process of titling has been caused by lack of adequate details on encroachment of land. &quot;We seek to expedite the process by ensuring every institution has the necessary registration. The challenge lies with previous owners of land who often come back upon hearing that we are in the process of issuing titles,&quot; said the chairperson. AFFECTED PARCELS READ MORE Swazuri orders probe on Solio Settlement Scheme Muhammad Swazuri team annuls 1,000 titles Fresh row stalks title deeds issued by President Uhuru at Coast Prof Swazuri observed the most affected parcels are those owned by religious organisations, settlement schemes, forests and those previously registered by individuals who worked in the defunct local authorities. &quot;It is impractical for individuals who once donated land as a gift to come and reclaim it when it has been identified by the ministry as public land. And to ensure that we move with speed in getting the crucial information of any parcel, we shall also re-introduce application forms for all,&quot; Swazuri. In Uasin Gishu, Swazuri noted that out of 700 schools, only 100 have titles, thus the need to start the survey. He challenged the public to provide information on grabbed land to the commission so that it can take appropriate action. Irungu Houghton, the Alliance director, said they will ensure lands that belong to institutions are reclaimed from grabbers. &quot;We shall audit, track history of ownership and hold accountable with the help of NLC those who have grabbed public utilities,&quot; he said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;