&nbsp; {Photo:Courtesy} Wellington:New Zealand emergency services and defense personnel began evacuating hundreds of tourists and residents from a small South Island town amid more strong aftershocks on Tuesday, a day after a powerful earthquake killed two people. The 7.8-magnitude tremor struck just after midnight on Sunday, destroying farm homesteads, sending glass and masonry toppling from buildings in the capital, Wellington, and cutting road and rail links throughout the northeast of the ruggedly beautiful South Island. The town of Kaikoura, a popular base for whale-watching about 150 km (90 miles) northeast of Christchurch, the South Island&#39;s main city, was completely cut off by massive landslips. Four defense force helicopters flew in to the town on Tuesday morning and the Navy&#39;s multi-role vessel HMNZS Canterbury was heading to the area, Air Commander Darryn Webb, acting commander of New Zealand joint forces, told TVNZ. &quot;The priority today is the airlift operation,&quot; he said. &quot;We&#39;re looking to do as many flights as we can out of Kaikoura today ... to move approximately 200 of those tourists and residents south.&quot; READ MORE New Zealand well-placed to meet multi-billion dollar quake bill 900 old people get Sh2,000 monthly stipend NEW ZEALAND TACKLE SEXISM:New Zealand names panel to review macho rugby culture Around 1,200 tourists were stranded in the town, officials said, and other emergency services were also using helicopters to fly in supplies and fly out those who wanted to leave. Mark Solomon, a leader of South Island indigenous Maori Ngai Tahu tribe, which has tourism and fisheries businesses around Kaikoura, said the local marae (Maori meeting place) had received 1,000 people since Monday morning. Many slept overnight in the communal hall or in vehicles outside. The tribe had fed them with crayfish, a delicacy for which the South Island town is famous. With no power, the tanks that hold the expensive crustaceans had stopped pumping. &quot;It&rsquo;s better to use the food than throw it in the rubbish so we sent it up to the marae to feed people,&quot; Solomon told Reuters by phone. &nbsp; AFTERSHOCKS, WIND AND RAIN GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;