In early October, unknown officials entered the government finance system at night and transferred millions of shillings in quick succession. More than Sh51 million belonging to Kilifi County was stolen and transferred to private companies within minutes, in the biggest flaw of the Integrated Financial Management System (IFMIS). It was one of a string of thefts executed through collusion among holders of passwords &ndash; according to information technology experts who have ruled out any possibility that the system could be hacked. &ldquo;Any payment of invoices pass through several validation and approval stages involving different officers,&rdquo; says John Opiyo, who has consulted on the payments system at the National Treasury. In his assessment, the officials could be deliberately sharing their passwords to execute the looting. &ldquo;All current thefts are purely collusion between the officers and suppliers,&rdquo; he says. The infamous National Youth Service (NYS) scandal where nearly Sh2 billion is feared to have been looted was executed in the same way as the theft in Kilifi County. READ MORE Revealed: How banks moved Sh6.3b NYS cash It&rsquo;s State&rsquo;s duty to fight graft, say CORD leaders DP Ruto tells Raila to fight graft in CORD counties first Suspects in the Kilifi theft told a preliminary probe they could not be interrogated in public as the information they had could incriminate their bosses. Their request to have the questioning done in camera could be a pointer that the officials may have been transferring the funds at the behest of their seniors. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) has taken over the investigations after the preliminary questioning by Members of the County Assembly (MCAs). Security requirement Before any payments for supplies are made, six different officers must give their individual approvals, and in a systematic fashion. What this means is that the sequence of approvals must be followed until the final user, usually the senior-most accounting officer. It is also the same accounting officer who logs into the internet banking system to sign off the payment from the accounts held in the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK). None of the approvers have the credentials to sign for any other party along the procurement chain. Osano Kute, an information technology consultant, says IFMIS users claiming that their passwords were stolen is akin to a bank manager claiming that they have lost keys to the vault. &ldquo;Anyone claiming that their password was stolen should also explain how the loss happened. Can you imagine a banker saying he lost the keys to the safe?&rdquo; poses Mr Kute, who is also the chief executive of Osano and Associates, a Nairobi-based consultancy firm. He said users who granted passwords should be educated that it is a major security requirement to keep them secret and regularly change them so that they are not on the same credentials from &ldquo;January to December&rdquo;. Moses Gesami, an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) consultant at Total Solutions Limited, discounts the claim that all the requisite passwords could be stolen so easily and conveniently. &ldquo;Unless all holders stored their passwords so carelessly, I do not see how this theft could happen,&rdquo; Mr Gesami says of IFMIS which can only be accessed from designated desktop computers. Users are granted passwords after their accounts are created, but are prompted to change them at the first log in to a secret combination of letters, numbers and special characters. In this way, the issuer of the password cannot tell what the revised one is. ERP is a business process management software that integrates operations through automation of back office functions including budgeting. IFMIS is one, and is built on Oracle whose first customer was the US Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;