&nbsp; {Photo:Courtesy} Kuala Lampur: Malaysian court on Monday sentenced an opposition lawmaker to 18 months in prison for releasing confidential information related to scandal-hit state fund 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB), keeping up a crackdown on critics of the government. The verdict comes just days ahead of a massive rally planned on Saturday by pro-democracy group Bersih, calling for Prime Minister Najib Razak to step down over his alleged involvement in the 1MDB scandal. Rafizi Ramli, a member of the People&#39;s Justice Party (PKR), was found guilty of violating the Official Secrets Act (OSA), by possessing and disclosing a page from the auditor-general&#39;s report on 1MDB without permission earlier this year. The audit was carried out last year following allegations of mismanagement and graft at 1MDB and has yet to be declassified. The court allowed a stay on the execution pending an appeal of the verdict. Rafizi said on his Twitter account that he would appeal the verdict. READ MORE Confusion as court halts issuance of title deeds in Mwea Two Bomet women arraigned in court over FGM Court directs JSC and SRC to resolve stand-off on allowances &quot;This is a sad day for Malaysian democracy, when a democrat has been brought to court for daring to speak up to protect the rights and interest of the people,&quot; PKR chief Wan Azizah Wan Ismail said in a statement. Wan Azizah&#39;s husband, charismatic opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim, is serving a five-year prison sentence after being found guilty in a case that supporters and many independent observers regarded as politically motivated. He was convicted in 2015, just as the pressure on Najib began to mount over the financial scandal at 1MDB. Founded by Najib, who chaired its advisory board, 1MDB is currently the subject of money laundering investigations in at least six countries, including Switzerland, Singapore and the United States. Najib has denied any wrongdoing. The government has clamped down on anti-government rally organizers, opposition leaders, activists and media groups who have raised the 1MDB issue. It has also proposed amendments to the Malaysia media law and Legal Profession Act. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;