Ford Kenya is running into a political storm in its bid to strengthen itself ahead of the elections as two rival groups hold parallel meetings over the party&rsquo;s leadership. On one side is party leader Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula whose faction will hold a National Governing Council (NGC) meeting on Saturday at Bomas of Kenya, Nairobi. On the other is a splinter group led by Ken Wafula, a human rights activist, which will hold a parallel meeting in Thika. The Bomas meeting is expected to endorse Wetang&rsquo;ula&rsquo;s presidential bid, an agenda the Wafula faction is opposed to. Ford Kenya Secretary General Eseli Simiyu has dismissed the Thika meeting, saying Wafula is a stranger to the party. &ldquo;Wafula is not a Ford Kenya member, he belongs to Safina. He should stop masquerading as a Ford Kenya official in Trans-Nzoia,&rsquo;&rsquo; said Eseli. The Tongaren MP termed Wafula a gun for hire out to wreck the party ahead of the elections. &ldquo;Wafula has no authority to talk about Ford Kenya. What his group is doing is illegal,&rsquo;&rsquo; he said. But Wafula dismissed Eseli&rsquo;s sentiments, saying he has been a member of Ford Kenya since 1996. READ MORE Ex-ministers, MPs eye comeback after years in political cold Kenya government should fund party nominations We shouldn&rsquo;t politicise hiring of IEBC chiefs &ldquo;That I am not a Ford Kenya member is falsehood spread by Eseli and Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale. The two recently confirmed my status as a genuine member at the Registrar of Political Parties,&rsquo;&rsquo; he said. Party elections Wafula has turned the tables on Wetang&rsquo;ula and other Ford Kenya leaders, demanding an explanation on failure by the party to conduct elections every four years and convene the National Delegates Convention (NDC) every two years. &ldquo;Wetang&rsquo;ula should respond to our grievances during the general council meeting in Thika. We also expect him to explain why he should be the Ford Kenya presidential candidate and lay strategies on the table. We doubt he is capable of flying the party&rsquo;s flag,&rsquo;&rsquo; said Wafula. The party&rsquo;s Nairobi branch chairman Lupesa Komesa and his Khwisero counterpart Zadock Mbinyi have warned members against attending the Bomas meeting. They said the Thika meeting will bring together 300 members from the 47 counties, 290 party constituency leaders, 386 delegates and 51 NGC members. &ldquo;We have mobilised our members to make sure we have one meeting in Thika. Any member who attends the Bomas meeting will face the consequences. We are the true owners of Ford Kenya and capable of leading the party,&rsquo;&rsquo; said Komesa. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;