CORD leader Raila Odinga has accused President Uhuru Kenyatta of shielding former Devolution Cabinet Secretary Anne Waiguru from prosecution over the National Youth Service scandal. Raila also questioned the Government&rsquo;s silence on aides and associates of Deputy President William Ruto who have been linked to the NYS scam. In her affidavit, Ms Waiguru named Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and Farouk Kibet as individuals linked to the saga. Raila said Waiguru is still free despite calls from even the Deputy President that she be charged. However, the former CS has maintained she is innocent, saying she was a whistleblower. In a statement, the Opposition leader in his latest attack also accused the Jubilee administration of manipulating anti-graft agencies and whining just like helpless Kenyans who have no instruments of power. Runaway corruption READ MORE Chaos mars ODM rally as leaders fight before Raila President Uhuru&rsquo;s engagement with the UN vital Kenya police housing project audit long overdue He accused President Kenyatta and his deputy of reacting in anger and apportioning blame on CORD instead of taking decisive action on runaway corruption. &ldquo;With all the power of manipulation that we have seen Jubilee exercise over these agencies, how come they are not taking any action against the alleged corrupt people in CORD? The attempt to blame CORD leadership does not make sense as it has no control over the investigative and prosecutorial agencies. What stops Jubilee from presenting evidence and arresting CORD leaders engaged in corruption?&rdquo; Raila questioned. Ruto has in the last few days accused Raila of being partisan in the war on graft. He asked the CORD leader to stop doublespeak on corruption and instead boldly condemn the vice perpetuated by opposition leaders. &ldquo;If Jubilee has any evidence of corruption, then they should place it before these agencies and get it acted on, not stand on political platforms lamenting like ordinary powerless citizens,&rdquo; said Raila.