The fate of the Sh2.5 billion ballot paper printing tender will be known tomorrow when a State agency makes a crucial ruling. The Public Procurement Administrative Review Board (PPARB) was forced to review the tender the electoral agency awarded to a Dubai-based printing firm, Al Ghurair, after it was challenged by another firm that participated in the process.&nbsp; Paarl Media of South Africa raised queries over possible irregularities in tendering and lodged an appeal with the procurement review board. PPARB yesterday said it will listen to both the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) and the complainant tomorrow before making a ruling over the matter, which could jolt the electoral commission&#39;s preparations for the August 8, 2017 elections. However, IEBC has defended its decision to award the tender to Al Ghurair and is expected to present evidence that it followed due process of procurement. READ MORE IEBC must keep off party primaries Don&rsquo;t panic, Raila tells Kenyans on CORD flagbearer Kalonzo: I&rsquo;ll only back Raila if he&rsquo;s going to win the next polls Should PPARB establish the electoral agency failed to follow due diligence, then it would be instructed to start tendering afresh. This came as Jubilee and CORD engaged in a war of words over the tendering process. CORD leader Raila Odinga wants the tender cancelled and other key electoral activities suspended until new IEBC commissioners take over failure to which they will boycott the General Election. electoral officials However, Jubilee has told off CORD accusing the Opposition coalition of attempts to blackmail the Government and electoral officials. &quot;We are warning that we are not ready to participate in choreographed elections with predetermined outcome designed for the survival of an incumbent facing a possible election disaster due to a long story of being surrounded by lieutenants with long hands,&quot; said ODM Director of Elections Junet Mohammed. Amani National Congress Leader Musalia Mudavadi shared similar sentiments stating that procurement is a critical component of elections and should await the new commissioners. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;