Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero has accused the Jubilee Party of relying on tribalism in the quest for the city&#39;s governorship. Dr Kidero said Jubilee was positioning aspirants and urging supporters to vote in tribal blocs in next year&#39;s elections. The governor spoke when he handed over 23 water tanks in Kibera over the weekend. The event later turned chaotic as the tanks were vandalised before they were officially handed over. Kidero lashed out at the Government, saying such political alignments were bound to fail. &quot;Nairobi needs someone who will look into the most burning issues of the county, not just any type of leader,&quot; he said. Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko, Bishop Margaret Wanjiru and former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth, all allied to Jubilee, are some of the leaders who have declared their interest in ousting the governor. READ MORE Fallout looms in Mt Kenya over Jubilee Party campaign team Rift Valley leaders in silent revolt over &lsquo;unfair&rsquo; Jubilee campaign team Put Uhuru&rsquo;s re-election bid first, aspirants urged Citing the unfolding of the Sh791 million National Youth Service (NYS) scandal, Kidero said rampant corruption in the Jubilee government explained why the majority of youths in informal settlements had no jobs. He said the youths had been driven to crime following the collapse of the NYS programme that was meant to alleviate poverty in the slums. &quot;We do not want a government that drives our youth into poverty by taking away their opportunities,&quot; said Kidero. He maintained that he was still the best choice for the governor&#39;s position in 2017 and urged city residents to vote for Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) leader Raila Odinga as president. Kidero handed over tanks with a capacity for 10,000 litres each to various youth and women&#39;s groups to help tackle the perennial water problems in the area. He also commissioned five LED lights, which he said would reduce crime. He also commissioned the construction of a 650-metre Cabro paving road, and unveiled a borehole to supply water to three tanks to serve Highrise estate residents. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;