The ruling Jubilee coalition yesterday claimed that Opposition leader Raila Odinga is a beneficiary of billions of shillings allegedly looted from the counties. At a press conference attended by over 20 MPs, the coalition said that Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (CORD) governors have been giving Raila monthly stipends running into millions of shillings and sponsoring his trips abroad and around the country. Without tabling evidence, they claimed that CORD is on a looting spree. &quot;Raila receives monthly stipends from all county governments under CORD. They pay for his rallies, accommodation and flights. We want Raila to come out and refund the millions given to him as stipends. He should no longer lecture Kenyans on the issue of corruption. It is Raila who said the buck stops with President Uhuru Kenyatta when there is corruption in Government. The buck stops with Raila Odinga when it comes to his governors,&quot; said Leader of Majority Aden Duale (Garissa Town). The allegations arose out of the alleged loss of over Sh1.4 billion from Kilifi County coffers. Officials, however, say they are investigating the loss of Sh51 million in the county. Raila has previously blown the whistle on corruption in government and asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to act. READ MORE Raila Odinga tears into Jubilee over land problems in Coast Ababu Namwamba accuses Raila of double standards on corruption China arrests three Australian Crown Resorts employees Beside Duale others who attended the press conference were Deputy Majority Whip Naomi Shaaban (Taveta), Johnson Sakaja (Nominated), Samuel Gichigi (Kipipiri), Nelson Gaichuhie (Subukia), Kangogo Bowen (Marakwet East), Sonia Birdi (Nominated), Alice Wahome (Kandara), Maison Leshoomo (Nominated), Rachel Shebesh (Nairobi) and Dido Rasso (Saku), Benjamin Langat (Ainamoi), Mary Wambui (Othaya), Joyce Emanikor (Turkana) and Soipan Tuya (Narok). Meanwhile, State House accused Raila of double standards in the fight against corruption, alleging that he is defending governors in ODM-controlled counties implicated in graft. The Presidential Strategic Communication Unit in a statement&nbsp; told Raila that he &quot;does not have the luxury of hunting with the hounds and running with the hares.&quot; &quot;Raila Odinga has come out wearing a new hat: that of the chief advocate, spokesman and defender of besieged governors in ODM-controlled counties. He wants a different standard to be applied in addressing county theft. As a national leader, it would serve Odinga well to attempt to be seen as consistent and even-handed,&quot; read the statement in part.