EUROPE: The European Union on Monday agreed a defense plan that could see it sending rapid response forces abroad for the first time, as U.S. President-elect Donald Trump&#39;s criticism of allies appeared to galvanize Europe into revamping its strategy. The plan set out by EU defense and foreign ministers could allow the bloc to send forces to stabilize a crisis before U.N. peace keepers can take over, and more broadly cement a willingness to act without the United States. &quot;Europe needs to be able to act for its own security,&quot; French Defence Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian told reporters. &quot;This will allow Europe to take a step towards its strategic autonomy,&quot; said Le Drian, who has led the EU efforts along with Germany and EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini, using EU code language for greater independence of Washington. The 16-page plan lists tasks and aims, many of which risk remaining abstract without an increase in funding. But it nonetheless takes on special relevance after Trump&#39;s comments during his campaign for the U.S. presidency in which he sniped at low levels of defense spending by some of NATO&#39;s European members. READ MORE Asia shares rally in sharp turnaround from Trump shock France says Europe must toughen up, protect itself after Trump victory Parliament must accept Brexit vote was legitimate: UK PM May Mogherini said there was support from governments on using so-called EU battle groups of 1,500 personnel, which have been operational since 2007 but never used. EU leaders must still sign off on the plan in December, while divisive aspects over money were left for officials to work out next year. Proposals for a European military headquarters were scaled back to focus on civilian missions. Figures on the table for funding the EU plan pale in comparison to the $18 billion that the United States aims to spend over the next five years on new technologies. During the U.S. election campaign Trump threatened to abandon U.S. allies in Europe if they did not spend enough on defense, appearing to question almost 70 years of U.S. military support that has been a cornerstone of American foreign policy. &quot;Clearly it is a message for all of to see how we can increase and improve our coordination,&quot; Sweden&#39;s Foreign minister Margot Wallstrom said of Trump&#39;s campaign comments, even though her country is not itself a member of the U.S.-led NATO alliance. The election of a Russia-friendly political novice as president in Bulgaria - a member of both the EU and NATO - has given further impetus to French and German efforts to improve common defense operations. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;