Discipline cases involving teachers will now take shorter time to conclude and the affected will be allowed to bring witnesses to support their cases. The Teachers Service Commission (TSC) has released new guidelines on discipline cases that also assigned roles to deputy county directors and sub-county directors. Previously, only county directors of education could interdict teachers and the inclusion of the two levels of management in the hearing of discipline cases is expected to quicken the process. The details are contained in new guidelines for management of discipline for teachers released yesterday, whose implementation started on November 1. The document, seen by The Standard on Saturday and signed by TSC Chief Executive Officer Nancy Macharia says interdicted teachers will now be allowed to bring witnesses during the hearing. They will also have a chance to appeal the decisions they feel are unfair to them. The guidelines assign commissioners the critical role of approving verdicts arrived at by discipline panels and allowing room for appeals. READ MORE Streamline early childhood in Kenya education now TSC to probe candidate&rsquo;s shocking death in Subukia, Kenya TSC directors to be liable for high fees, Matiang&rsquo;i says This means that commissioners will no longer go around the country to listen to discipline cases, as is the current practice. This also means that the duration for determination of cases will be reduced and the teacher gap necessitated by interdictions or prolonged verdicts would be sealed. In a circular dated October 31, Ms Macharia says the guidelines are aimed at maintaining strict observance of the regulations governing the teaching service. &ldquo;The objective of these guidelines is to complement the requirements set out in the codes regulating the teaching service and ensure that management of discipline cases is conducted in a simple, fair and effective manner,&rdquo; Ms Macharia says. Professional misconduct The document states that schools&rsquo; Boards of Management (BoM) will interdict secondary school teachers found guilty of professional misconduct at the investigation stage. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;