Senate Minority Leader Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula now says Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka should be ruled out of the Opposition coalition&rsquo;s ticket because they have run in the big race before and failed. Wetang&rsquo;ula introduced the new &lsquo;criteria&rsquo; that he believes should be a key consideration by a team working to select Coalition for Reforms and Democracy&rsquo;s presidential candidate and which he hoped will bolster his bid to become the coalition&rsquo;s flag bearer in next year&rsquo;s elections. Raila and Kalonzo lost to President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto in 2013, but earlier, Raila had unsuccessfully run for president in 1997 and in 2007, when Kalonzo, too, made his first and only unsuccessful bid for high office. Yesterday, Wetang&rsquo;ula argued he was the best suited to deliver victory for the Opposition that is still undecided on a formula for picking its presidential candidate. &ldquo;I have been quite categorical. My brothers have run before and I am the one who has not been tested and whose political tricks have not been let out of the bag yet.&rdquo; He added: &ldquo;I am the one who has given them an assurance that I will be able to deliver a stronger punch against Jubilee and deliver victory for our coalition, which will be the victory for the country. The person who can do that is Wetang&rsquo;ula.&rdquo; READ MORE Raila pockets huge chunk of money looted from counties, claim MPs Ababu Namwamba accuses Raila of double standards on corruption Raila Odinga tears into Jubilee over land problems in Coast But Wetang&rsquo;ula agreed with Kalonzo that CORD should pick the candidate by consensus. Raila says he is confident that a technical team formed to decide on the mode of selection of candidate and the flag-bearer would give direction. Kalonzo and Wetang&rsquo;ula have persistently asked Raila to bow out of the race, with the latter once telling the Orange party leader to become the &ldquo;Kingmaker&rdquo;. Kalonzo this week declared he would not back Raila if he&rsquo;s losing the elections but Raila asked the CORD fraternity not to panic. &nbsp;Here is the third series of interviews with CORD co-principals. Q: What is your response to suggestions CORD is divided and affiliate parties may eventually field separate presidential candidates? A: There is no truth whatsoever that we are disunited and may go our separate ways. There is also no truth in saying that we are not together. No coalition has ever stayed cohesively and united in the manner CORD has done since the last election. Q: How do you prefer the coalition to pick its candidate - through a contested nomination or boardroom deal? A: In a situation such as this, the route that will cause little trouble is consensus. A consensus where we sit as partners and agree on an arrangement and then prevail upon our supporters and our colleagues to support and follow. If that will not be available, the next most logical agreement will be to find an alternative mechanism. If we don&rsquo;t go through a consensus, we will have a contest as long as the contest is free, fair, open, transparent and democratic. I have no doubt that we will all be committed to the cause. Q:And in case of negotiations, what factors do you suppose should guide decision to pick the presidential flag bearer? A: Our target is to present a candidate, running mate and a team that represents the face of Kenya. Our target is to present a future of hope and unity. These will be guiding factors for the three of us. I have been quite categorical, my brothers have run before and I am the one who has not been tested and whose political tricks have not been let out of the bag yet. I am the one who has given them an assurance that I will be able to deliver a stronger punch against Jubilee and deliver victory for our coalition, which will be the victory for the country. The person who can do that is Wetang&rsquo;ula. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;