The National Land Commission (NLC) has moved to resolve a dispute pitting&nbsp;a woman against the Ng&#39;enda New Farmers Company. NLC ruled the&nbsp;935 acres in Makuyu belong to&nbsp;the company. The land has been at the centre of a protracted land dispute pitting Margaret Nyokabi Mbugua and her five children against Ng&#39;enda New farmers company from Gatundu. Ms Nyokabi and her five children have sued 1,500 members of the company for intruding on the land of which she claims ownership. They maintained the land under dispute was rightfully theirs and that they wanted the company barred from laying claim. Nyokabi claims they bought the land from white settlers in 1973. NLC Chairman Muhammad Swazuri, who toured the disputed land on Friday, said the company was the legitimate owner since all ownership documents presented by the officials were legal and unquestionable. &quot;Even after inviting Nyokabi to our offices three months (ago) to bring land ownership documents in her possession proving to be the legal owner, she failed to respond. We have also gone to court where the land case has been for many years and she hasn&#39;t produced the documents there either,&quot; Dr Swazuri said. READ MORE Swazuri assures land owners after expiry of 99-year leases Schools to get title deeds in war on land grabbing Swazuri orders probe on Solio Settlement Scheme Legal proprietor He said according to the law, the commission had no option but to declare the company as the lawful owners of the land since it availed all the requisite documents. He said the commission declared the company the legal proprietor of the land after scrutinising and verifying all documents. &quot;We acted according to the law; guided by the Land Laws Amendment Act in the Constitution, which outlaws anyone without requisite legal land documents to invade a particular piece of land. The Government is here to protect private-public and community properties,&quot; Swazuri added. The chairman said all the subdivisions that had been done on the land were now illegal since the land&#39;s mother title was still in the hands of the company&#39;s officials. He said NLC would write to Murang&#39;a County Commissioner John Elungata to ensure all those who were in the land illegally are evicted. Ng&#39;enda New Farmers Chairman Peter Ng&#39;ang&#39;a Kibe welcomed the verdict by NLC terming it as good news for members. He said the company would lay down plans to sub-divide the land after being given the green light by NLC. He warned unsuspecting land buyers not to fall into the trap set by land brokers who pretend they can sell them land there. &quot;The thieving land brokers who have been coming from as far as Nyahururu and Thika have been issuing the innocent locals with sham title deeds so those who want to buy land here should be wary,&quot; he said.