KAKAMEGA: The national government is investigating claims that chiefs and their assistants have been asking for bribes from beneficiaries of cash transfer programmes. A team of officers from the Ministry of Labour made an impromptu tour of the county yesterday and asked local residents to report the culprits to the relevant authorities. &quot;They have been taking advantage of the ignorance of beneficiaries to demand money from them and threaten to have them struck off the register if they don&#39;t comply,&quot; said Sidney Achia from the Social Assistance Unit. Mr Achia assured the elders, orphans and people living with disability benefiting from the programme that neither chiefs nor caretakers could have them blacklisted for denying them a share of the Sh2,000 they were entitled to monthly. &quot;We have been receiving complaints and decided to come to the field to ascertain the truth,&quot; said Achia. He said the impact evaluation report capturing orphans who benefit from the&nbsp;cash transfer showed that there was high student retention in schools, enhanced nutrition and a drastic drop in early pregnancies. READ MORE EACC summons CS Mailu, PS Muraguri over Sh3b scam PS Muraguri wanted to eject auditor from ministry, letter shows &quot;This indicates how successful the programme has been and how much it is able to achieve if managed well.&quot; In addition, people with living with disability and benefiting from the programme had begun agitating for their rights without fear of discrimination. The officers also said most elderly people were now able to live in a dignified manner and were embraced by the society. &quot;However, we have been forced to remove some people from the list because they are leaving their money to accumulate. Others have registered twice but they are rejected by the system automatically,&quot; said Lilian Karinga, also from the Social Assistance Unit. Director of Children Services Masika Wasike said they were sensitising beneficiaries on how the cash transfer programme works. &quot;This will end the cases of harassment being reported in some areas.&quot; GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;