Two people have died in as many weeks in counter-attacks at Ikorongo on the border of Kisii, Nyamira, Narok and Bomet counties. The latest victim was killed on Sunday morning. He was among youths from the Kisii community who had crossed over to the Kipsigis side in search of stolen cattle. A Form Four student at Ikorongo Secondary and another victim were shot with arrows and rushed to the Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital for urgent operations. The student sat his first two papers from the hospital bed. The hospital CEO Enock Ondari said both patients were in a stable condition. The fight broke out on Saturday night following an incident where six cows were stolen from the Kisii community. READ MORE Politicians skip Gusii elders meet Kenyan girl ready for exams after successful eye surgery State owes hospital Sh27m for free maternity plan Police officers were deployed to the area on Sunday morning, but youths from both sides were still fighting by 4pm. Administration Police officers from the Quick Response Team were sent yesterday to patrol the area, particularly around Ikorongo Secondary School, which admits students from both Kisii and Kipsigis communities. WAY FORWARD Residents from the Kisii Community vowed not to allow students from the Kipsigis community into Ikorongo Secondary School to sit exams. Masimba Ward MCA Samson Nyagaka said the conflict had affected the economy of the region. &ldquo;Cows are driven from the Kisii side to the Kipsigis community. No official from the national security agencies has come to talk to the residents,&rdquo; said Mr Nyagaka. Kisii Governor James Ongwae said he would convene a meeting with his counterparts from the three counties to find a way forward. &ldquo;We must strive to live in peace along our boundaries. The national government must deploy non-partisan police officers to the affected area,&rdquo; said Mr Ongwae. However, residents from both communities said the issue had been politicised and could lead to more fatalities. The prolonged land conflict and frequent cattle rustling cases have been a major cause of conflict along the border.