&nbsp; {Photo:Courtesy} Seoul:South Korean prosecutors will question President Park Geun-hye over a political corruption scandal engulfing her presidency, an official said on Sunday, the first time a sitting president will be questioned by prosecutors over a criminal case. Hundreds of thousands marched in the capital Seoul on Saturday demanding Park resign. Many protesters said Park, whose public support has dropped to the lowest point ever for a democratically elected South Korean leader at 5 percent, was unfit to rule. Prosecutors are investigating whether Park exerted improper pressure on &quot;chaebol&quot; conglomerate bosses to raise funds for two foundations at the center of an influence-peddling scandal involving a friend of hers, Yonhap reported on Sunday, citing prosecution sources. They are also probing Park&#39;s friend, Choi Soon-sil, who is alleged to have used her ties to the president to meddle in state affairs and wield influence in the cultural and sports communities, a prosecutor has previously said. Prosecutors have already questioned the de facto head of Samsung Group SAGR.UL Jay Y. Lee and the chairmen of Hyundai Motor Group (005380.KS) and Hanjin Group HANJ.UL over the scandal, media reports said on Sunday. READ MORE Don who saved SA from political mayhem, lone in life and death Former Eldoret South MP freed after month in jail over corruption RUGBY: Habana missing for Springboks against England &quot;It&#39;s correct we&#39;re planning to question the president but the date is undecided,&quot; an official at the prosecutors&#39; office told Reuters. Yonhap news agency quoted a prosecution official as saying Park&#39;s questioning should be done no later than Wednesday. &quot;Questioning people face-to-face is our principle,&quot; the official said. Park will appear before prosecutors as a witness, Yonhap reported. Park&#39;s office said it would be Tuesday at the earliest before it will have a position on the prosecutors&#39; plan and was considering retaining a lawyer for the president. While some previous South Korean presidents have been mired in scandals or allegations of wrongdoing involving family members during their terms, none were directly questioned by prosecutors while they were in office. The prosecution office official confirmed the chairman of Hyundai Motor, Chung Mong-koo, was questioned on Saturday but declined to confirm whether the other chaebol bosses had met prosecutors. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;