Jubilee leaders led by Deputy President William Ruto yesterday hit out at CORD for allegedly scheming not to concede defeat in the August 2017 elections. DP in Tononoka Mombasa DP William Ruto addresses residents of Mombasa at Tononoka ground. They said CORD has sensed defeat and its planned demonstration over the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) was to lay grounds to reject the election outcome. Addressing thousands of Jubilee supporters who thronged the Tononoka historical ground in Mvita, Mombasa, for the launch of&nbsp;Jubilee presidential campaign team,&nbsp;the leaders challenged CORD to publicly state that they would concede defeat if they lost. &quot;IEBC is a constitutional body and political functionaries should not bring their confusion from their parties to it. We will not accept chaos during and after the elections,&quot; said Ruto, who was accompanied by Majority Leader in Parliament Aden Duale, Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya and Kilifi North MP Gideon Mung&#39;aro. He said that IEBC was not an arm of CORD or Jubilee and that those tasked to appoint the new commissioners and implement other reforms should be given time to do their job. Joho attacks READ MORE Gideon Moi: Ruto and I are not agents of division Governor Ruto tells Kenyans to get rid of Jubilee in the next polls Kalonzo: DP Ruto is not guaranteed presidency in 2022 Ruto also responded to Mombasa Governor Hassan Ali Joho sustained attacks against him (Ruto), saying he has no time to engage him on &quot;cheap political contests&quot; and propaganda. Ruto said CORD had failed to sell its agenda to the Kenyans and had resorted to spreading propaganda against the Government and planning demonstrations aimed at causing disharmony in the country. The DP said the Government was well on course to resolve the perennial land problem at the Coast and dismissed CORD&#39;s assertion that the solution was in implementation of TJRC report. He said the Government had issued over 1.2 million title deeds since it came to power, with Coast region being the biggest beneficiary. Ruto said the national government would undertake expansion of three main water sources&nbsp;&ndash; Mzima Dam (Taita Taveta), Mwache Dama (Kwale) Baricho (Kilifi)&nbsp;&ndash; in Coast at the cost of over Sh60 billion. The crowds started gathering at the grounds as early as 11am with others holding processions across the streets of the port city before converging at Tononoka. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;