Land leases have been a subject of protracted legal battles between communities, companies and individuals. At the Supreme Court, the Narok and Migori County governments have been battling to wrest huge chunks of land from individuals and return them to public use in landmark cases likely to set precedents on public land leaseholds. The same script is repeated in other courts where multinational companies are battling with either county governments or communities to retain thousands of acres of land under their control. At the Milimani Law Courts in Nairobi, Del Monte Company has been at war with both Murang&rsquo;a and Kiambu County governments for refusing to renew its lease on 15,000 acres of land for a pineapple plantation. The company&rsquo;s lease on its land in Murang&rsquo;a expires in 2022 while that in Kiambu expires in 2019. At the Meru High Court, Lake Turkana Wind Power Ltd was allowed to use 87,500 acres of community land to generate electricity despite resistance from residents of Marsabit County, who had gone to court claiming&nbsp; the company had compulsorily acquired 150,000 acres of their ancestral land. READ MORE Firm entices land buyers with discounts Swazuri assures land owners after expiry of 99-year leases Wilfried Zaha Swaps England for Ivory Coast However, Justice Peter Njoroge on November 9 dismissed their application. In Narok County, the Supreme Court granted interim orders restraining businessman Livingstone Kunini Ntutu and his company, Ol Kiombo Ltd from taking possession of 4,000 acres of the Masai Mara National Reserve until the dispute is resolved. The dispute dates back to 1984 when the defunct county council of Narok granted Ol Kiombo Ltd a 33-year lease within the national reserve to run hospitality services for tourists. In 1992, the government declared the leased area part of Maasai Mara National Reserve, ending Mr Ntutu&rsquo;s lease. In 2000, Ntutu sought to reclaim the land and in 2005 signed a consent that stopped the council from collecting rent or royalties from his company. The county council however claimed they did not authorise the consent and in March 2014, Lady Justice Pauline Nyamweya revoked it, saying it was illegal. She ordered that the disputed land be returned to the county government. DISPUTED LAND Ntutu appealed against the decision. Appellate Judges Roselyn Nambuye, Daniel Musinga and Jamila Mohammed in April 2015 ruled that the 33-year-lease to the businessman was valid and ordered that he repossess the disputed land. It was then that the Narok county government moved to the Supreme Court, arguing that the Court of Appeal considered irrelevant factors and failed to recognise that the title deed granted to Ntutu was cancelled in March 2010. &ldquo;As early as 1969, the Government had prohibited adjudication and registration of individual titles in the game reserve. All other records have revealed that the 4,000 acres were excised from the National Reserve in total contravention of wildlife conservation laws,&rdquo; said the county&rsquo;s lawyer, Tom Ojienda. He added that the contested part was classified as a trust land and any portion could only be divided through adjudication and fresh classification by the government. He further submitted that the decision went against public interest as it allowed unlawful disposal of communal land without redress to the community. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;