Hillary Clinton who yesterday looked poised to make history as the first female president of the US, amassed vast international experience as the Secretary of State for President Barack Obama, in whose Cabinet she served between 2008 and 2012. Yesterday morning Mrs Clinton, accompanied by her husband Bill, arrived early at Douglass Graffin Elementary School to cast a ballot for herself, just as she did on the Tuesday of November 4, 2008, at the same school and polling centre when she cast a ballot for her bitter rival in the Democratic primaries, Obama, whom she had lost to after a long and hard fought battle for their party nomination. That night, as Hillary took fitful naps, her husband was glued to the television, doing what he always does on election nights; analysing all the data he could get on turnout and early exit votes. As it turned out, Obama&#39;s victory that night over Republican nominee Arizona Senator John McCain was both sweeping and decisive, and gave the US its first black president in an epochal moment. Then Obama made his move, and asked Clinton to come see him, the President-elect, in his headquarters in Chicago. That is how, on the Thursday of the 13th, nine days after the election, after a New York to Chicago plane hop, Clinton found herself being ushered into this large wood-paneled room furnished with a few chairs and one folding table, to meet alone with Obama. Obama skipped the small talk, as Clinton would so often get to see him do when he had something serious on his mind (though he was full of jokes at more relaxed times) and made the offer &ndash; he wanted her to be his Secretary of State. &quot;I have been thinking of you for a while now to serve as my Secretary of State,&quot; he told Hillary, &quot;I believe you are the best person, the ONLY person, for the role at this moment in time, with the unique challenges America faces at home and abroad.&quot; READ MORE Poll shows Hillary Clinton on the verge of history Analysis: US winner must help heal wound in American politics Making a choice: Voters talk of decision and of tensions After Clinton shook her head &quot;no&quot;, saying the state of New York needed her in the Senate, Obama went into persuasive mode, making a pleading pitch. &quot;I am massively invested in reversing the massive job losses and economic crises we are seeing here at home, fixing our broken health care system, and creating new opportunities for working families in America. Abroad, we have two wars to wind down (inherited from the Bush era, alongside the financial collapse), emerging threats to (our country) to counter, new opportunities to seize; and I need someone of stature, a capable champion, to restore America&#39;s damaged standing in the world.&quot; In the end, as Clinton said, she just couldn&#39;t turn down her Commander-in-Chief begging her to serve her country. Three months later, on February 15, the day after Valentine&#39;s Day, Clinton was off to Pacific-Asia to try and restore America&#39;s lost love affair with the rest of the world, on her first trip abroad as Secretary of State. Her magnificent motorcade wound its way through the quiet streets of Andrews Air Force Base to the vast expanse of tarmac, shimmering in the Sunday sunshine. The convoy halted before a blue and white US Air Force Boeing 757, fitted with enough advanced communications gear to co-ordinate global diplomacy anywhere in the world. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;