Kiserian, Kenya: As the 22nd Conference of Parties (COP 22) to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change opens in Marrakesh, Morocco, on November 7, in faraway Kenya some school pupils are making an impact by planting trees &ndash; one tree at a time -- away from the pomp and glamor. The pupils of Kiserian Primary School, located in a poor neighborhood outside the bustling Kenyan capital Nairobi, are making a difference while providing a sustainable solution to a global problem. The active members of the school&rsquo;s environment club initiated an innovative environmental program some years ago with the aim of curbing the adverse effects of climate change. They are actively involved in planting trees, while also tending a community tree nursery, where hundreds of tree seedlings are grown and shared with the local community. &ldquo;The journey has been long, with some successes and challenges along the way,&rdquo; said Ms. Grace Muchai, a patron of the school&rsquo;s environment club, adding that Kajiado &ndash; the plain plateau of savannah grassland and shrub bushes, where the school is located, is generally a dry land. Kajiado is an arid and semi-arid area, she said, &ldquo;So we ensure that we impart knowledge to our pupils on the need to plant trees and conserve the environment.&rdquo; &ldquo;Thanks to the project, we now have a small forest within the school compound,&rdquo; she said.&nbsp; The school is situated in a dusty, peri-urban area, some 26 kilometres (16 miles) south west of Nairobi. &ldquo;When you teach these young pupils they will never forget what they&rsquo;ve learned,&rdquo; Ms. Muchai added. The issues of food insecurity and global warming, she said, have been a global challenge and that &ldquo;we realize that each and everyone needs to be fully involved.&rdquo; The Marrakesh talks (COP22) will be the first meeting of the parties to the Paris agreement on climate change. The landmark agreement, signed in December last year, seeks to see nations drastically limit or cap their greenhouse gas emissions, on a case-by-case basis. &ldquo;Climate change is gathering pace &ndash; and so is the global drive to fight it,&rdquo; the Financial Times reported in a recent article headlined &ldquo;Hope on Marrakesh talks to limit global warming.&rdquo; Several years on, the Kenyan school tree-planting project is gaining traction from the local community and has been commended as a practical, homegrown solution towards addressing the global problem/issue of climate change and deforestation. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;