The use of ethnicity for political growth is now a familiar phenomenon, having been used relentlessly and remorselessly by politicians to seek and retain powers. Too often, the ethnic card is played to stir populism or to score political points. Issues that have very little to do with ethnicity suddenly become politicised. Such assertion was hard to contest as early as the mid-1960s. Today it is beyond dispute. During electioneering periods, ethnic affiliations are wildly exaggerated so as to establish a presumption of a close consanguineous kinship between tribesmen with intent to build a tribal position. The existence of such a position, often-times disguised as &ldquo;community interest&rdquo;, rejects even the possibility of a rational debate and spontaneously conjectures irredeemable bad faith on the part of any probable non-conformist. This should be of great concern to us because when politicians exclusively use tribes to bludgeon andnot their individual ability to persuade, when tribal position supersedes all other opinions and facts, and when people stop listening to one another for the fear of reproach from their kinsmen, we have in effect consecrated ethnicity as a politically instrumental principle, making each tribe a standalone voting entity. READ MORE Women aspirants tell ODM to slash fees Embu bishop bans politicians from leading fundraisers Six killed in border row between two clans in Wajir Ultimately, it will become impossible for Kenyans from different ethnic groups to meet on common ground - even to inhabit a common reality. We have inadvertently nurtured the &ldquo;perfect conditions for durable division&rdquo;. Admittedly, the use or misuse of ethnicity as a political tool of trade encapsulates the whys and wherefores of our inability to attain nationhood after five and half decades of statehood. However, the chronic absence of nationhood in our country is not only a &ldquo;by-product&rdquo; of the ethnic-based politics. It is also a cause. The recent emergence of &ldquo;tribal coalitions&rdquo; across the country as voting blocs should not be misconstrued as a sign of improvement in inter-ethnic relations. The formation of tribal alliances by key political protagonists divulges not only their inability but also lack of political will on their part to create a genuine system of political accommodation. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;