When he received a text message on his phone on Wednesday morning that he had won Sh22 million in a bet, 42-year-old Shadrack Kitur thought it was just another joke. Mr Kitur, who runs an electronics shop in Lessos, Nandi County, even switched off his phone thinking it had been attacked by a virus that was causing it to malfunction. However, when he switched his phone on, the message from local betting firm, SportPesa, was still staring at him and the figure was Sh22,842,642. That was when the reality dawned on the father of two that he had just joined the millionaires&#39; club. This was after betting for a whole year during which the most he had won was Sh2,000. Kitur&rsquo;s victory was courtesy of correctly predicting results of 13 matches in the ongoing 2018 World Cup qualifiers for South America. The last game was between Uruguay and Chile which the latter won. The match kicked off at 2:30am and ended at 4:30am. Kitur, who yesterday was treated to a red carpet reception at a top city hotel where he was handed his cheque, says he did not give up even after failing to win in a long time. READ MORE RESOLVE LEAGUE IMPASSE:SportPesa say they have no problem with expanded league Arrest illegal gambling before it's too late Betting sites see record wagering on U.S. presidential election He says he even saved money and bought a smart phone to make betting easier.&nbsp; Clad in a brown khaki trouser and a purple shirt, Kitur arrived at the hotel in a chauffeured limousine, stocked with assorted drinks. His brother, Daniel Tenai, was all smiles as he escorted him into his moment of glory. And the weather was not cold enough to dim their smiles as camera&rsquo;s clicked away. &ldquo;I was just about to take breakfast when I saw the message that I had won millions. I was not sure of anything and that is why I switched off my phone,&rdquo; Kitur said adding: &ldquo;I also want to thank my wife for always supporting me&rdquo;. Kitur says he had placed bets on both the jackpot and the multi-bet. &ldquo;All I can say is that I am very happy.&rdquo;