The High Court has directed Judicial Service Commission (JSC) and Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC) to give dialogue a final chance over stand-off on capping of sitting allowances. JSC, through lawyer Issa Mansur, yesterday told High Court judge Edward Muriithi that meetings meant to ease the stand-off between the two State agencies that were to be moderated by Attorney General Githu Muigai had failed to kick off. &ldquo;Although the petitioner was ready and willing to resolve the matter out of court, the first respondent (SRC) remained unwilling to settle the matter amicably and the petitioner is left with no option but proceed with the matter before this honourable court for determination of the weighty constitutional issues,&rdquo; said Mr Mansur. The commission pointed an accusing finger at SRC, saying it had stalled the dialogue. However, the Sarah Serem-led commission, through lawyer Paul Nyamodi, denied the claims. BROKER MEETING &ldquo;The petitioner (JSC) and the first respondent (SRC) should meet at the facilitation by the second respondent (AG ) within seven days. The petition will proceed for hearing if settlement will not be reached,&rdquo; ruled the judge. READ MORE Wage bill has risen by Sh160 billion in four years You'll lose your land if it stays idle for 10 years Nakuru High Court okays charges on Koinange widow The AG, on the other hand, asked the court that it should give him an opportunity to broker another meeting for the matter to be settled outside the courts. &ldquo;We should give negotiations a chance. Since JSC has chairman Justice David Maraga, he should meet with SRC and have the matter settled,&rdquo; the judge was told. In the case, JSC Secretary Anne Amadi accuses SRC of overstepping its mandate in seeking to limit the number of paid meetings the JSC should have per month, arguing the commission is an independent organ that is not subject to any direction. &ldquo;SRC can only set the remuneration for JSC but cannot set the number of paid sittings they have since that will be attempting to interfere with our administrative independence. In any event, SRC can only review benefits of State officers but not independent constitutional offices,&rdquo; said Amadi in her affidavit. Ms Amadi, who doubles up as the Chief Registrar of the Judiciary, further said it is wrong for SRC to base their arguments on the fact that JSC commissioners are holding other public positions, which enables them to earn double salaries. She said SRC had resorted to making baseless claims to discredit the commission. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;