A row is brewing among Jubilee leaders in Kwale County, including the new re-election campaign steering team unveiled by President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto early this month. The entry of Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya to Jubilee Party has ruffled feathers of ODM rebels, who defected before him. The differences within Jubilee ranks were first witnessed on Saturday when Ruto and Mvurya skipped a rally at Ukunda showground that had been organised by one of the rebels, Kwale Woman Representative Zainab Chidzuga. Speaking to The Standard on Sunday, Chidzuga said the President was &ldquo;not crazy&rdquo; to pick her as part of his campaign team. &ldquo;I am working hard and campaigning for my President, but in those other positions let wananchi decide who they want. If other leaders are not campaigning for me, but my enemies why should I campaign for them?&rdquo; said Chidzuga in an apparent reference to Mvurya. Although the governor has not said publicly whether he supports Chidzuga&rsquo;s re-election, there are reports that he supports someone else. READ MORE Mt Elgon Jubilee leaders form caucus to unseat MP Serut Kiambu governorship race hots up IEBC must keep off party primaries The rivalry between Mvurya and Chidzuga started when they were still both in ODM. The two are among the six politicians picked to head President Kenyatta&rsquo;s re-election campaign at the Coast. Chidzuga&rsquo;s rage was also aimed at nominated MCA Fatuma Nchidzumo, who led TNA campaigns in 2013 elections, in what appears to be a supremacy battle. &ldquo;People should stop panicking because we did not enter someone&rsquo;s party. I will not go back but remain focused to marshal support for Jubilee,&rdquo; said Chidzuga. But Nchidzumo termed Chidzuga a failure. &ldquo;She came to Jubilee thinking she would dictate to us what to do, but found a hard nut to crack. If she has the muscle, we also do,&rdquo; said Nchidzumo. Nchidzumo noted that now that Mvurya has entered the party, he is the &ldquo;automatic&rdquo; coordinator, given his status as governor. Prof Halimu Shauri, a political science lecturer at Pwani University says Chidzuga joined Jubilee first and sees Mvurya as an intruder. &ldquo;On the other hand, Nchidzumo sees herself as the ground breaker for Jubilee and worked for the party when the ground was hostile and sees Chidzuga as another intruder,&rdquo; says Shauri.