NAIROBI: Opposition chief Raila Odinga has cautioned against panic in CORD, insisting that the coalition still has time to select a presidential candidate to beat President Uhuru Kenyatta. Although CORD co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka has warned that the coalition risked acrimony if it chooses a contested presidential nominee arguing that time has run out, Raila said there was no reason to panic. The ODM leader, who is battling for the coalition&rsquo;s ticket with Kalonzo and Senate Minority Leader Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula, said he would respect the decision by a team working to decide CORD&rsquo;s flagbearer. &ldquo;The idea that there will be irreconcilable differences in Opposition and each party will eventually field a candidate is a dream of Jubilee. It will not happen,&rdquo; Raila said on the back of persistent demands by Kalonzo and Mr Wetang&rsquo;ula that he should drop out and back either of them on the premise that they stand a better chance to dislodge Jubilee from power. &ldquo;When the time comes for us to name the candidate, we will not disappoint,&rdquo; he said even as Kalonzo&rsquo;s Wiper Party allies push for the joint opposition candidate to be named before the end of this year. Raila added: &ldquo;We will present Kenyans with a candidate that is equal to the task of rebuilding Kenya. There is no reason for panic at this hour.&rdquo; READ MORE DP Ruto hits out at CORD over plot to reject poll results Kenya's stark choices as 2017 polls beckon Kalonzo: I&rsquo;ll only back Raila if he&rsquo;s going to win the next polls Here is the full interview: Question: What is your response to suggestions that CORD is divided and affiliate parties may eventually field separate presidential candidates? The Opposition is expanding and CORD will be part of the expanded Opposition. Those focusing on CORD alone are therefore missing the point. The ultimate goal is to present a single candidate against Jubilee. The idea that there will be irreconcilable differences in the Opposition and each party will eventually field a candidate is a dream of Jubilee. It will not happen. The Opposition will present a single candidate and CORD will be part of that arrangement. Q: How do you prefer the coalition to pick its candidate - through a contested nomination or boardroom deal? There is a team working on the logistics and various ways of picking the flag bearer. I do not want to impose my views or my preferences on that team. I also don&rsquo;t want to put undue pressure on the team. I am convinced that time is still on our side. When the time comes for us to name the candidate, we will not disappoint. We will present Kenyans with a candidate that is equal to the task of rebuilding Kenya. There is no reason for panic at this hour. Q:&nbsp;In the case of negotiations, what factors do you suppose should guide the decision to pick the presidential flagbearer? GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;