The last few weeks have witnessed some of the most intense discussions on corruption. While the State House governance summit allowed the country a rare peak into the dysfunction of the anti-corruption bureaucracy, the release of the Health Ministry interim audit spiced the conversation to an unusual peak. In the same season, PAC was investigating the NYS scandal, with its generous share of denials, accusations and counter-accusations. Much has been said on the merits and otherwise of these unfortunate events and my focus today is not on their substance but on the citizens&rsquo; worrying perspectives on the issue of corruption. This matter was manifested this week from a most abnormal source. I happened to listen into one of the morning FM talk shows, which generally tends towards the saucy, but which this week focused on the scourge of corruption. On the first day the responses on the matter, coming straight after the now infamous Josephine Kabura appeared at PAC, went as expected; total disgust at this national cancer and pure vitriol at its perpetrators. Most people expressed their fear that corruption was killing Kenya and indicated that they were losing or had lost confidence in the government on the matter. Come the next day&rsquo;s conversation and I was left disturbed. When people were asked whether they would report their partner to the authorities if they brought the proceeds of corruption home, all callers, without a single exception, indicated they would not report but would instead joyfully kula the nyama and consider their partner a hero. While I do not wish to place this FM conversation at a higher pedestal than it belongs or assume it is a scientific poll on Kenyans&rsquo; attitudes, I have been around long enough to know though there are exceptions, unfortunately dwindling rapidly, this perspective is a realistic reflection of our reality. At all levels of society, the majority&rsquo;s concern about corruption is not ethical, it is about exclusion; the fact that it is monopolised by a few. It is about others hogging the available pie, not a national aversion to pie eating. That explains why anti-corruption protests hardly attract large crowds; there is little real national revulsion against corruption. To me this is the greatest threat to a successful fight against corruption. For as long as the majority, particularly the middle class, have a fairly accommodating attitude to their own corruption, no amount of new institutions and ethics summits will cure this national scourge.When did the rain start to beat us? There is no doubt that at some point in our developmental path, it became clear to the citizen that corruption pays, and that those who pay the price for corruption are the silent majority, who are burdened with the augmented cost of living, or those who dare stand in corruption&rsquo;s way. People witnessed numerous rags become riches, people whose only claim to riches was their connections. Hard work and ethical conduct were frowned upon; I remember the nation being shocked that a Cabinet Minister sacked by President Moi had to travel home by train after many years in Cabinet, he did not own a single car. We also knew of numerous examples of people who were serving time because they had dared challenge this monster. The message eventually got home that as long as corruption was us, it was acceptable. The offensive corruption was the one we had no opportunity to participate in. It&rsquo;s no wonder then that a recent survey of young people found that most of them have no problem with engaging in corrupt deals. Is there hope for this country? My personal conviction is that there is. There are things government can and must do, like closing the numerous legal and administrative loopholes that encourage graft and ensuring that the true perpetrators of corruption, not just puppets or worse still scapegoats, are punished. But until the citizenry accepts that on this matter we stand condemned, at least in our attitudes, and that corruption is not just about them, but about us too, until sufficient anger can be stoked by a moral and ethical aversion to corruption, even if government wins some battles, the overall war will be long lost. READ MORE Ordinary Kenyans wield more power than they perceive Moi defends Uhuru over corruption, asks suspects to resign Migori Governor Okoth Obado faces prosecution over graft