KISUMU: Chief Justice David Maraga has vowed to protect devolution just like his predecessor Willy Mutunga did even as Justice Daniel Musinga was appointed the new presiding judge of the Court of Appeal in Kisumu. Judge Musinga yesterday took over from the CJ, who left the position after being appointed to head the Judiciary. Until his appointment, Musinga was one of the Court of Appeal judges in Kisumu. Justice Maraga challenged the new presiding judge to reduce the backlog of cases pending before the Court of Appeal. &ldquo;There are about 453 criminal appeals still pending. Eldoret has 69 cases,&rdquo; said Maraga. He said there are also 98 civil appeals and 47 civil applications still pending before the Court of Appeal. &ldquo;I am happy to hand over these cases and I believe that he (Musinga) will be able to reduce the backlog,&rdquo; said Maraga. The Law Society of Kenya urged the CJ to ensure fairness in placement of judicial officers. READ MORE CJ Maraga: Cases over five years old to get priority CJ Maraga should hasten judicial reforms High Court Judge in last attempt to keep his job &ldquo;We are sure the Judiciary is now in good hands because CJ Maraga has shown consistency and fairness in all his dealings in this profession,&rdquo; said LSK president Isaac Okero. And speaking in Kakamega County, Justice Maraga assured Kenyans that the Judiciary will continue to be at the forefront in protecting devolution. &ldquo;We have defended devolution and we will continue doing so because that is what the Constitution requires us to do,&rdquo; he said. The CJ spoke during a courtesy call on Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya. Mr Oparanya appealed to the CJ to defend devolution like his predecessor Dr Willy Mutunga did. &ldquo;He (Mutunga) gave it all for devolution and I hope you will do the same because devolution has made a big impact on Kenyans,&rdquo; said the governor. Maraga said part of what they discussed was about setting up of more courts in different parts of the county to take services closer to the people.He also promised to post a Lands and Environment judge in Kakamega to reduce backlog of cases. Currently, people with land disputes are forced to travel to Kisumu Law Courts or wait for a visiting judge to preside over the cases. Maraga said land had been identified for construction of courts in Likuyani, Lugari and Navakholo. He said new courtrooms will be built in Kakamega and more judges deployed to Kakamega Law courts to enhance service delivery. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;