CORD leader Raila Odinga has played down the decision by Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua to support President Uhuru Kenyatta. Raila, who was speaking after the two met at a funeral service in Nairobi yesterday, said Karua&#39;s declaration to support President Uhuru Kenyatta in next year&#39;s general election does not worry him or CORD. &quot;Martha has a right and she remains a friend. We (CORD) are growing by the day and are concerned about the people, not a person. More are joining, watch this space. It is going to be more than a tsunami,&quot; the ODM leader said. Raila said his closeness to the Narc-Kenya party leader was stirred by the Okoa Kenya movement but it has since fizzled out. The former Prime Minister and Karua shared a platform but remained silent on recent political happenings that have seen her shift her loyalty to the ruling coalition. They met at activist George Kegoro&#39;s house where they had gone to condole with his family for the loss of their mother Peris Nyaboke. On Thursday, the former Justice and Constitutional Affairs minister declared that her party will be supporting President Kenyatta&#39;s re-election bid. READ MORE Imperial shareholders accuse CBK of misinterpreting ruling Portland Cement shareholders face more dividend drought as profits dip Kenyans starve as plenty crops rot in farms She had been supporting the opposition, with sources indicating that she was to be part of a grand coalition that would bring together Raila, Wiper&#39;s Kalonzo Musyoka, Ford Kenya&#39;s Moses Wetangula and Amani Coalition&#39;s Musalia Mudavadi. The CORD leader called for unity among Kenyans to liberate the country. &quot;Let us talk about the country&#39;s unity. It is going to liberate us from shackles of bad politics,&quot; Raila said, adding that corruption is weighing down the country. At the service, Karua introduced the former Prime Minister, addressing him as a friend and a colleague. She completely kept off politics. During a Narc-Kenya delegates conference at Kianyaga Catholic in Gichugu constituency, Karua said she was shifting allegiance to Jubilee because &quot;the tide was too strong to go against.&quot; She said Narc-Kenya was just friends with the Opposition and was not for the super alliance that is being fronted by CORD and Amani leaderships. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;