Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto&rsquo;s return from South Africa where he had gone to seek treatment for an injury sustained following a confrontation with police, and angry demonstrations among rival groups in Narok County, have underlined the emerging political tensions in regions in which Jubilee is seeking to exert its influence. In Bomet, the battle between anti-establishment Governor Ruto and pro-Jubilee Joyce Laboso has resulted in numerous clashes between their supporters. In the most vicious engagement the governor was teargassed by police at a football match in Silibwet, disrupting a tournament organised by Dr Laboso, the county&rsquo;s Deputy Speaker,. Ruto has accused the police of harassing his Chama Cha Mashinani (CCM) supporters on several occasions, and noted that in two incidents, 50 boda-boda operator were arrested on spurious grounds and were identified because they were wearing CCM-branded T-shirts. &ldquo;Five youths were arrested for wearing reflectors with CCM. Even in Mashujaa Day it was same issue . . . over 64 youths were arrested,&rdquo; Governor Bomet said at the time. He has repeatedly accused the Jubilee administration of funding demonstrations to disrupt his functions, and says these disturbances began when he first clashed with Deputy President William Ruto over the location of the proposed a university in Bomet. READ MORE Litmus test for Ford Kenya as rival groups claim control of Lion party Kenya government should fund party nominations IEBC best suited to manage party nominations But Laboso sees the confrontations as brinkmanship orchestrated for political capital, and says she would be a more unifying leader. &ldquo;The people of Bomet should say No to leaders who disrespect others and instigate violence and this is why I am seeking election . . . so that such violence can be brought to an end,&rdquo; Laboso said. In Narok County, Governor Samuel Tunai&rsquo;s perennial confrontations with Narok West MP Patrick Ole Ntutu have often resulted in cat calls between their supporters. Their latest disagreement revolves around the opening of Jubilee Party (JP) offices in the county. Ntutu, who has announced that he will seek JP&rsquo;s nomination to vie for the Narok governorship, recently opened a party office in Kilgoris where he asked the incumbent governor to brace himself for battle. Governor Tunai also opened a party office along Nyawera Road in Narok Town which is the county headquarters. The event was attended by two legislators &mdash; Narok East MP Lemanken Aramat and his Kilgoris counterpart Gideon Konchella &mdash; and the symbolism was not lost on Ntutu who immediately complained that other leaders were excluded, and said he would open a branch office on his own. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;