New Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) regional commanders have been named ahead of the 2017 general elections. Also named were Administration Police bosses in changes announced by the National Police Service Commission. In Nairobi, almost half of the 12 DCI commanders were moved in efforts to check crime levels. The new regional DCI coordinators named include Pius Macharia (Coast), Mohamed Amin (North Eastern), Henry Ondiek (Eastern), Gideon Kibunja (Rift Valley), David Cheruiyot (Western), John Gachomo (Nyanza), Michael Baraza (Central) and Nicholas Kamwende (Nairobi). The changes also saw Francis Njiru moved to Railways, Peris Muthoni to DCI headquarters complaints section and Violet Makhanu named the staff officer in charge of training at DCI, Danson Diru moved to KRA and Patrick Ndunda the head of Criminal Registry. The new County Criminal Investigations Officers (CCIOs) include John Koki (Baringo), Shem Nyamboki (Bungoma), Joseph Limo (Meru), Vitalis Okumu (Vihiga), Bruno Shioso (Mombasa), Carry Nyawinda (Kakamega), Alfred Majimbo (Embu) and Brigit Kanyai (Nyeri). The changes also saw George Kisaka named the CCIO (Marsabit), John Otieno (Elgeyo Marakwet), John Koini (Nakuru), Bernard Walumoli (Kajiado), Geoffrey Kathurima (Kisumu), Zachary Nangulu (Garissa), Ndumba Thangalani (Nyamira) and Justus Burudi (Kitui). READ MORE Kiambu and Machakos Counties&rsquo; police commanders moved in mini-reshuffle Ex-Deputy DCI Kimilu appointed head of Interpol Nairobi Regional Bureau New medical scheme not working for us, police say Others are Bernard Korir (Trans Nzoia), Sammy Mukeku (Nandi), Moses Cheruiyot (Siaya), Stephene Magwe (Kericho), Shaban Mohamed (Nyandarua), Nicholas Etyang (Tana River), Julius Rutere (Muranga), Peter Muinde (Taita Taveta), Washngton Njeru (Kwale), Michael Mugo (West Pokot), Benedict Kigen (Migori), Edward Imbwanga (Turkana), James Kipsoi (Kisii), Edward Kamau (Isiolo) and Daniel Wachira (Homabay). The new DCIOs named include Shadrack Kitheka (Meru Central), Joshua Cheptoo (Kigumo), Kiberenge Seroney (Central Nairobi), Samson Kiptum (Langata), Paul Wambugu (Kiambu), Charles Mwaizinga (Teso), Ali Bule (Makadara), Henry Ndombi (Likoni), Beatrice Kabaila (Voi), Gabriel Gachungi (Kayole), Haris Ondego (Narok), Chris Chesole (Kilifi), Linus Owango (Starehe), Jacob Kanake (Mombasa), Stephen Wambua (Ngong), Simon Mwongela (Mwingi) and Cicilia Mugambi (Ongata Rongai). The changes are seen as crucial ahead of the next year&rsquo;s general elections. In the Adminstration Police department, Omar Shurie was named the North Eastern commander, Paul Birech (Western), Joseph Chepkeitany (Nyanza), Jacob Mukiri (Eastern), Francis Mburu (Nairobi) and Chrispus Mutali to be in charge of SGB in changes that affected 45 senior officers.. Officials that is aimed at enhancing security coordination in the country ahead of the general elections.