When the world&#39;s top luxury hotel brands gathered last weekend for the 2016 World Luxury Hotel Awards gala ceremony at The St Regis Doha, in Qatar, the dream of every participant was to emerge the best in their categories. To stand head and shoulders above their peers.By the end of the ceremony, two Kenyan hotel groups were feted as the best in Africa. The hotels were the Sarova Hotels that emerged Africa&#39;s Top Hotel Group and Sun Africa Hotels, as the continent&#39;s Best Hotel Management Company. No Kenyan hotel made it to the top of the world, though. That honour went to South Africa with three hotels emerging global winners in their respective categories. The other were Morocco and Seychelles with one each.The Armani Hotel Dubai was the overall winner. The hotel is situated within the iconic Burj Khalifa, and &quot;reflects the pure elegance, simplicity and sophisticated comfort that defines Giorgio Armani&#39;s signature style&quot;.Away from the global and continental stage, however, a number of hotels stood out as Kenya&#39;s best. Enashipai Hotel and Spa was Kenya&#39;s Best Luxury Hotel and Conference Centre; House of Waine had the Best General Manager; Keekorok Lodge - Maasai Mara (Luxury Game Lodge), Lake Naivasha Country Club (luxury Country Hotel); Lantana Galu Beach (Best Serviced Luxury Villas); Sarova Mara Game Camp (Luxury Tented Safari Camp); Sovereign Suites in Nairobi (Luxury Design Hotel); Sun Africa Beach Resort in Mombasa (Luxury Beach Resort); Kilili Baharini Resort, Mombasa (Luxury Restaurant Hotel).DusitD2 emerged Kenya&#39;s Top Luxury Business Hotel in the awards. This is the second consecutive year that the hotel has won the award.The winners will be listed in the World Luxury Hotel Awards Ultimate Hotel Guide, published annually. The guide is used as a reference for travel agents, tour operators and hotel guests as a guideline to research, explore and book luxury accommodations.Commenting on the global award, DusitD2 Nairobi general manager, Michael Metaxas, said the hotel&#39;s team is delighted as the ward has reaffirmed its top position in Kenya&#39;s hotel industry.&quot;We are delighted at the recognition we have received at the World Luxury Awards, which has put Kenya&#39;s hospitality industry on the global stage. We will continue to offer world-class services to our guests who are mainly business travellers looking to mix business with leisure,&quot; said Metaxas.Naivasha-based Kiboko Luxury Camp emerged the winner under Luxury Eco Safari Lodge category; Sankara in Nairobi won Luxury Hotel category; Sarova Stanley, Nairobi, won in the Luxury Historic Hotel category and Sarova Whitesands Beach &amp; Spa won in the the Luxury Coastal Resort category.The awards are a recognised global affair that recognises luxury hotels for their world-class facilities and excellent services. The awards are presented to luxury hotels in over 50 different categories on a country, regional and global basis.The gala dinner and award presentation in Qatar brought together global hoteliers and travel consultants.