Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau launched his Murang&rsquo;a gubernatorial bid at an event attended by residents and 10 MPs including National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale. The MP said the launch proved his journey to capturing the seat had started. There was heavy police presence at Mumbi Grounds, following fears that Murang&#39;a Governor Mwangi wa Iria&rsquo;s supporters would disrupt the ceremony. The two-term Kigumo MP got a boost after five of the eight MPs in the county as well as Senator Kembi Gitura attended the event and pledged to support him. The event was a culmination of a dramatic week where the county government was involved in an altercation with him over the use of Mumbi Grounds for the launch. After he acquired the venue through a third party, the county government offloaded tonnes of manure at the ground, claiming it was set for rehabilitation. But Kamau insisted his function would go on having already concluded preparations. Yesterday, leaders present at the function used the manure metaphorically, saying it was godsend as it would be make Kamau&rsquo;s campaign thrive. READ MORE Kigumo MP Jamleck finally secures ground to launch his campaign Panel calls off interviews to pick new IEBC boss Unholy trinity of tribe, politics and greed the bane of Kenya During the elaborate ceremony, Iria&rsquo;s deputy Gakure Monyo was the master of ceremony and vowed to support Kamau. Kamau read a 42-page manifesto, saying infrastructure, health, education and water would be the areas he would focus on if elected. Monyo claimed the governor should be voted out because he had failed to initiate projects despite Murang&rsquo;a havening been allocated Sh21 billion from the National Treasury in the past four years. Kamau said within a 100 days, he will institute measures to recover all the money stolen from the county government. &ldquo;I will concentrate on restoration, empowerment and accountability,&rdquo; said Kamau. In a thinly veiled attack on the governor, Senator Kembi said: &ldquo;Murang&rsquo;a is a county with a lot of potential and leaders should be working together to help reshape the destiny of the region by ignoring divisive politics.&rdquo; Leaders who spoke said all Jubilee aspirants should embrace peaceful campaigns. Duale described Iria&rsquo;s move to block Kamau from using the grounds as show of cowardice. &ldquo;There are no reasons whatsoever to panic as the party nominations will be conducted by IEBC to ensure there is transparency,&rdquo; said Duale.