A teacher who turned on his 13-year-old pupil and defiled her over incomplete homework will serve 25 years in jail. Alex Otieno, also the proprietor of Starlet Academy in Nakuru, was convicted of the offence by a Nakuru court yesterday. The 36-year-old father of three was charged that he committed the offence between April 30, 2013 and July 19, 2013 at Dundori in Nakuru County. In her testimony, the minor said that on July 19, 2013, the teacher called her to his office after he found out that she had not completed her Composition and Social Studies homework. &quot;In his office, he defiled me and warned me not to tell anyone,&quot; said the minor. &quot;My classmate asked me what was wrong but I was scared of telling her. I ended up telling her when we were leaving school,&quot; she added. The second witness, the classmate, narrated to court how shaken the girl was and how she kept to herself. &quot;When she came from the teacher&#39;s office, she appeared shaken but when I enquired what had happened, she refused to tell me. She disclosed what had happened when we were leaving school that evening,&quot; she said. READ MORE Mwatate elderly woman raped and murdered in cold blood Leaders say elderly woman&rsquo;s rape and murder was ritual killing Teacher rapes 13 year old girl for not finishing her homework The classmate added that she convinced the girl to report the issue to her mother that evening. The mother told the court that her daughter came home on July 19, 2013, scared and accompanied by her friend. &quot;(She) appeared shaken. When I enquired what had happened, her friend told her &#39;si useme&#39;. She then told me that her teacher had defiled her,&quot; said the mother. The mother told the court that she and her daughter reported the incident to the police and completed a P3 form at the Provincial General Hospital in Nakuru with a Dr Matara. And in his testimony, the doctor told the court that the minor and her mother had visited the hospital on July 20, 2013. His examination revealed that the minor had been defiled. Yesterday, Senior Resident Magistrate Judicaster Nthuku said she found the evidence presented by the prosecution to be true. The magistrate said the accused was not remorseful and the statement he posed to the minor proved that he defiled her. The court found the sentence to be fit and fair. Yesterday when The Standard caught up with him, he was in prison uniform, far away from the school he founded and nurtured to the point at which it had 94 pupils in all seven classes.