Commission on Administrative Justice Chairman Otiende Amollo leaves office at the end of this month. Dr Amollo, a former member of the Committee of Experts (COE), was appointed chair to CAJ in 2011, and leaves office one year before expiry of his term. The commission, also known as the office of the Ombudsman, succeeded the Public Complaints Standing Committee, and is mandated to investigate abuse of power, unfair treatment, injustice and unfair or unresponsive official conduct of public officers. He spoke to The Standard on Sunday&rsquo;s Lillian Aluanga-Delvaux Question: What has been your greatest challenge as CAJ chair? Answer: My term at the commission has been fulfilling, but challenging in some respects given its unique mandate. Most people, including lawyers and judges, still don&rsquo;t understand the unique jurisdiction of the Ombudsman&rsquo;s office. It has also been challenging to make the Government understand the unique nature of this office, given that it&rsquo;s within the state machinery but checks on the excesses of public officers. Some quarters have even mistakenly viewed it as a commission that fights the government and an appendage to the Opposition. READ MORE Ombudsman Otiende Amollo to face contempt of court charges Treasury CS Rotich: Ombudsman got it wrong on spending circular Treasury secretly diverting money from ministries, says Ombudsman What have been your greatest achievements? The commission has sensitised the public of its existence and trained government officers on what we do. To date we have trained about 20,000 officers. Efficiency in complaints handling has improved and the process of lodging complaints is now easier. This can be reflected by the rise in the number of complaints filed, from about 4,000 four years ago to over 117,000, with efficiency in complaint resolution rising from 26 to 87 per cent. We have issued over 50 advisories, made determinations on thousands of matters and have others pending in court. Kenya is now part of the 42-member African Ombudsmans Association, where I was elected secretary general. The commission also introduced the concept of condemnation going hand in hand with commendation and came up with the Huduma Ombudsman Awards, which reward public officers for exemplary service. Have any public institutions been a stumbling block to the commission in discharging its duties? If yes, which ones? We have had problems with a number of offices. While successive Inspector Generals of Police have generally been cooperative, there are a number of senior police officers that have still not appreciated the work of the commission. The Department of Defence has also tended to be obtrusive when complaints are lodged against it. Although the situation has lately improved, the Lands Department still remains among the institutions that have not been easy to deal with. County governments are mostly operating under a mistaken belief that they are independent offices, thus posing a challenge. There have also been individual officers like Principal Secretaries who have exhibited great unresponsiveness to the commission. There has been a perception that the Commission largely has &ldquo;more bark than bite&rdquo;. The argument advanced in some quarters is that it has produced dozens of reports and made recommendations on several matters that have not been implemented. Do you agree with this view and do you think the office of the Ombudsman in Kenya gets the recognition it deserves? The question of whether the office of the Ombudsman can be equated to a toothless bulldog has been the subject of debate across the globe. It must be acknowledged that the office has recommendatory powers. Good governance demands that recommendations made by this office are adhered to. In South Africa, Namibia, Zambia and Kenya&rsquo;s case, the Ombudsman&rsquo;s office has binding powers, which means the decisions we arrive at aren&rsquo;t just recommendations but must be implemented. Judges and lawyers are however yet to appreciate this. My singular regret is that I leave office before the Judiciary fully appreciates this fact. I believe that only when it does will government officials also begin to appreciate the same. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;