Mandera County police commander Job Boronjo has been moved in changes affecting 123 senior officers. His Lamu counterpart Aphiod Nyaga was too moved in the changes that saw new OCPDs named. The two regions have been adversely affected with terror incidents in the past months. And in what seems to be a slow but sure move, police headquarters is reintroducing the scrapped provincial administration under a new name of regional coordinator. New deputy regional coordinators- titles that are non-existent were posted to the former provinces. The new ones include Akello Odhiambo (Coast), Reuben Katithi (Eastern), Leonard Omollo (Western), Selestino Nyaga (Rift Valley) while Gideon Ngumi was named head of operations Central Region, Clement Wangai in Eastern, Aphiod Nyaga to Coast and David Kerina was posted to Mandera as head of operations. These regions have police coordinators acting as defunct Provincial Police Officers (PPOs) and Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCIs). READ MORE Police kill four terrorists, recover 4 AK-47 rifles and 90 bullets in Mandera Lawyer seeks Sh10 million damages from NTSA over traffic charge Leaders ask Nkaissery to lift dusk-to-dawn Mandera curfew &ldquo;This is more of introduction of the provincial administration in as much as they say it is aimed at enhancing operations. The focus is the 2017 elections,&rdquo; said an informed officer who asked not to be named. In the changes made on Sunday John Katumo was named the head of Marine police unit while Boronjo was moved to Kenya Police College as the director of studies junior training wing. Ambrose Mwachia was confirmed the head of Diplomatic Unit, Remi Warui (deputy railways unit), Hassan Abdi (traffic operations), Hilary Birgen (Chief Armorer) and Rachael Kipsoi to Eastern headquarters. The new County commanders include Perminus Nyaga (Lamu), Smollets Mnyanzia (Nyandarua), Patrick Wambani (Nandi), Philip Opiyo (Narok), Bernard Nyakwaka (Mandera), Alfred Ochieng (Samburu), Joseph Lolmichiel (Makueni) and Nelson Dalti (Uasin Gishu). The new OCPD for Central in Nairobi is Robinson Thuku and he will replace Paul Wanjama who was moved to Muranga South in the same capacity. Nakuru OCPD Musa Kongoli was moved to Kikuyu in the same capacity while Cicily Gatiti is the new Kirinyaga West OCPD. Lafey OCPD Bosita Mukoya was moved to Makueni in the same capacity while his Banisa counterpart was moved to Nzaui and would be replaced by Anthony Keter while Antony Maina goes to Lafey. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;