Opposition figures insisted talks to form a broad-based alliance are ongoing as Jubilee branded the planned outfit a unity of the minority vote that lost in the last elections. Amani National Congress Leader Musalia Mudavadi, who has pushed the National Super Alliance (Nasa), said background talks were ongoing to form the alliance that he said would bring together ODM, Wiper, Ford-Kenya, ANC, Kanu and any other Opposition party. The ANC leader said the structure of the new outfit would be unveiled soon. &quot;I can confirm to you that the talks are ongoing. There are serious background discussions,&quot; Mudavadi said yesterday. He spoke a day after Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto hosted him, Kanu chairman Gideon Moi, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka among other leaders in Bomet where the leaders rooted for the alliance. Yesterday, Kanu Secretary General Nick Salat said there were ongoing political realignments aimed at bringing Opposition leaders together. READ MORE Long list of expectations awaits Uhuru in Western Multinational crew blasts off, bound for space station ODM on high alert as Jubilee ignites raid on key stronghold Mr Salat said the Jubilee regime had failed and the only way the Opposition could save the country is by joining hands. &quot;The ongoing realignments are natural as we approach elections. So I am not surprised that like-minded individuals are coming together to come up with a workable formula. People are finding what can be the alternative to the existing structures,&quot; Salat said. ODM National Treasurer Timothy Bosire said the structure of the super alliance would be made public soon. &quot;We will ultimately come together, the formation is inevitable and the structure is taking shape. There comes a time when we realise that we are pursuing the same goal with divided energy and the sooner we realise that, the better. We are realising that and the mood is good; we are talking softly to each other,&quot; Bosire said. But in an earlier interview, Kalonzo, who also attended the Bomet rally, denied any formal talks about the outfit. &quot;I don&#39;t know about the super alliance thing. I have read about it in the papers but we have never sat anywhere to discuss it,&quot; Kalonzo said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;