NAIROBI, KENYA: The University of Nairobi and the Rotary club of Nairobi have signed a memorandum of understanding to support the University&rsquo;s needy students who are government sponsored. The students to benefit from the Rotary Club of Nairobi Scholarship Fund will be drawn from the School of Business, Law, Economics and Information Technology. &ldquo;This bursary is a collaboration of the Asian Commercial Community Academic Award (ACCAA) and the Rotary club of Nairobi. The bursary will help the needy students who have qualified for government sponsored University education but cannot support themselves financially,&rdquo; said the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Peter Mbithi. &ldquo;When students are encouraged to perform highly and get incentives, there will be change not only in the University but also the whole of Kenya, this partnership come in to fill gaps,&rdquo; he added. Speaking during the signing ceremony, Mr. David Githongo, Chairman, Rotary Club of Nairobi said that Universities are drivers of progress in a country. READ MORE My life as woman taxi driver University of Nairobi ranked top in architecture course He said that Universities need partners who can come in and pick a student and support. &ldquo;I hope that other partners will come in and support students because the government can do so much. We all need to put a hand in improving the quality of education in our country,&rdquo; he said. Mr. RomyMadan,Trustee, ACCAA, said that it is critical that the funds go into supporting the really needy and deserving students. He emphasized that continuance in the scheme participation would be determined by an excellent academic performance. There will be an annual review of the student&rsquo;s performance. The bursary supports undergraduate students from first year to the last while mentoring the students on community service and giving back to the community. The Special Students Advisor section and the Academic Division of the University will assist in vetting the bright, needy students who deserve the support. The Rotary club of Nairobi Scholarship Fund will be available in January 2017. Present during the ceremony was Prof. Godfrey Muriuki, Special Student Advisor, Mr. B.M. Waweru, Academic Registrar and Mr. Johnson Kinyua, Director, University Advancement among others.