ELDORET: There is growing disquiet in the North Rift over the Jubilee Presidential Campaign team following the omission of representatives&nbsp;from the region. From the list, representations from the regions such as Uasin Gishu, Nandi and Elgeyo Marakwet Counties is conspicuously missing despite being a Jubilee&#39;s stronghold and the backyard of Deputy President William Ruto. Locals are alleging foul play and now want a review of the list in order to include the youth and a representation from every region. They have also castigated the local leadership for failing to raise the issue over perceived fear of crossing lines with the DP by being seen to be against his decision. President Kenyatta and his Deputy unveiled the national campaign team during the party&#39;s first National Governing Council at Bomas last weekend with optimism that the group selected from the eight previous provinces will ensure him a win in the coming polls. In the Rift, the members comprise of National assembly deputy speaker Joyce Laboso from Bomet and Narok, Turkana and Trans Nzoia Women representatives Soipan Tuya, Joyce Emanikor and Janet Nangabo respectively. READ MORE Police excesses a blot on Jubilee reign Martha Karua quits Raila&rsquo;s team, declares her support for Uhuru Narok residents protest over power connection delay Others are West Pokot Governor Simon Kachapin, Kajiado MP Katoo Ole Metito, Turkana Senator John Munyes, Nakuru Speaker Susan Kihika and Davis Sankok from Narok. North Rift Jubilee youth leader Kiprotich Cherargei accused the ruling government of failing to ensure that there is a fair representation of the party campaigners. &quot;We expected the likes of Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago and our Nandi Senator Stephen Sang to feature in the list because they have been vocal in selling the party&#39;s policies, what was agreed upon is not ideal and we feel let down,&quot; he said. Cherargei pointed out that no youth was considered unlike the 2013 general elections that propelled the two principals to power where the team strategized thus locking out the opposition. He further insisted that due to the vastness of the North Rift region, it will be an uphill task for those selected to spearhead campaigns in 2017. &quot;How do you expect Senator Munyes and Women Representative to singlehandedly traverse the North Rift seeking for votes yet there are dedicated people such as the youths who can comfortably play a role,&quot; he posed. Many pundits opine that the omission of the likes of Mandago is brought up by the likely fear by the top party officials allied to the DP in bestowing them with an opportunity that might give them an advantage against their opponents during the nominations. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;