Hillary Clinton just could not hold onto Obama&#39;s 2012 strongholds. That proved to be a large part of her undoing; that, and the fact that African-American, Latino and younger voters failed to show up at the polls in sufficient numbers. Clinton conceded the race after 2am ET (10am East African time). Before polls closed, her campaign was confident of victory. In the end, however, she lost even some states thought to be safely in her column, like Wisconsin. She trailed in others, like Pennsylvania and Michigan. While she won the key demographic groups her campaign targeted, she under-performed President Obama&#39;s successful 2012 bid across the board. Despite Trump&#39;s disparaging remarks on African-Americans, Mexicans and undocumented immigrants, a slightly larger share of black and Latino voters cast ballots for him than those that supported Mitt Romney in 2012. READ MORE Kenya shilling holds firm as analysts predict stability Mama Sarah Obama salutes Trump Panic as 30,000 Kenyans face deportation under Trump regime President Barack Obama, who captured the presidency with the help of the African-American and Latino communities, had issued several personal pleas to black voters to back Clinton in recent weeks. &quot;If we let this thing slip and I&#39;ve got a situation where my last two months in office are preparing for a transition to Donald Trump, whose staff people have said that their primary agenda is to have him in the first couple of weeks sitting in the Oval Office and reverse every single thing that we&#39;ve done,&quot; he said. But not enough African-Americans or Latinos heeded the call. By Wednesday morning, some 88 per cent of African-American voters had supported Clinton against 8 per cent for Donald Trump. While that was a large margin, it was not as big as Obama&#39;s in 2012, when he took 93 per cent of the black vote. Some 12 per cent of the electorate was African-American this year, compared to 13 per cent four years ago. That was a key drop, especially when paired with a smaller-than-expected growth in Latino votes. Clinton&#39;s support among Latinos was even more tenuous, despite Trump pledging to build a wall on the Mexican border, accusing undocumented immigrants of being criminal aliens and promising to deport them. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;