A Jubilee legislator has criticised institutions tasked with fighting corruption and accused them of subverting President Uhuru Kenyatta&#39;s quest to tackle graft. Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru said Uhuru&#39;s administration had provided&nbsp; the Ethics and Ant-Corruption Commission (EACC) with&nbsp; resources to bolster the war on graft, but the agency had failed to deliver. Mr Waweru accused EACC, the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP), the Judiciary and the police of dragging their feet and allowing corruption cartels to operate unchallenged. &quot;It is very&nbsp; disappointing to everyone&nbsp; to have empowered and well-funded institutions looking the other way in the war on graft,&quot;&nbsp; said Waweru, who a Nairobi governorship aspirant. &quot;Kenyans are frustrated to see individuals who have stolen public funds walking freely, dishing out ill-gotten cash and now presenting themselves for elective seats,&quot; he said, even as he noted that public institutions were being plundered . The Jubilee administration has been accused of not doing enough to check corruption, leading to the plunder of&nbsp; billions of shillings from State agencies. READ MORE Farmers in Kenya need State backing to improve earnings President Uhuru Kenyatta outlines Kenya's climate change agenda Governor Mutua vows Maendeleo Chap Chap will deliver Uhuru votes It is suspected that at least Sh1.8 billion was swindled at the National Youth Service (NYS) through dubious projects launched to benefit young people. And at the Ministry of Health, an audit report has raised queries over Sh5.3 billion that was irregularly diverted&nbsp; to other activities whose prices were heavily inflated.&nbsp; But yesterday, Waweru defended the Jubilee administration, saying the scandals had come to light&nbsp; because of&nbsp; greater vigilance by government agencies. &quot;When the NYS saga came to light, individuals were charged with graft and they are now in court, but the cases are dragging even as the suspects remain free. We want speedy prosecution and recovery of looted public funds. &quot;Everyone must carry his or her own cross. There should be no hiding under ethnic groupings or political affiliations. Those pretending to enjoy protection from the Jubilee Party should be ready to face the law,&quot; he said.