Nairobi Kenya: Over 20 societies including associations for artists, broadcasters, filmmakers, advertising, scriptwriters, performers, music producers and copyright protection bodies are among over 60 organizations that have confirmed participation in the 2016 Broadcast, Film and Music Africa (BFMA8) conference.The meeting opens next week 23-24 November at the Kenya National Theatre. This highlights the importance players in the booming content industry are attaching to urgent discussions on a range of pressing issues related to content, copyright, royalties and regulation. The conference is expected to champion further development of the Kenya and East Africa&rsquo;s content industry in the post-digital migration period. &nbsp;This is the first meeting of broadcast and content professionals in East Africa since the digital migration in the industry and comes at a time when the country is grappling with new legislation and tightening regulations. Experts from Kenya and 31 other countries are expected to participate.Sangeeta Patel, Chief Executive officer of AITEC Africa which organizes the BFMA conference has confirmed the participation of leading professionals in film, TV, Radio and content distributors from the region at the event in which officials from the Ministry of Information and Communication and the Ministry of Sports, Arts and Culture will attend. &nbsp;&ldquo;The confirmation of such a large number of associations and professionals from the arts and creative industry highlights the importance that players are attaching to bench-marking, dialogue and stocktaking through positive engagements,&rdquo; said Ms Sangeeta.&nbsp;The Kenya cultural centre, Ezekiel Mutua headed Kenya Film Classification Board and the Permanent Presidential Music Commission have separately confirmed their participation in the conference billed as Africa&rsquo;s largest annual gathering of creative professionals and digital media industry.&nbsp;The media migration to the digital signal and IP platforms means an even greater reliance on technology in the broadcast industry; say Carolle Kariuki, Project Manager for Broadcast Film and Music Africa conference. &ldquo;The competition for viewership is stiffening. At the same time, the industry is witnessing a paradigm shift with increased choice around platforms by consumers, with innovations around low cost content production and the rise of mobile and online content distribution channels&rdquo; she says.The phenomenal rise of the gaming industry and social media as a source of news and entertainment has also presented a set of new challenges and opportunities.The usually star-studded conference has chosen Kenya National Theatre as venue to retain a tradition of town hall discussions and TED- like program structure befitting cross-industry networking. BFMA8 also retains the staging of new films, an engagement of content creators with broadcasters and another stage for interaction between broadcast engineers with technology developers. AITEC Africa also retains the rock music festival stage&nbsp; ROFFEKE which facilitates &nbsp;screenings and commentaries on local and international rock &lsquo;n roll films and music videos. AITEC Africa Chairman Sean Moroney said the nascent Gaming industry will benefit from this year&rsquo;s event:&nbsp; &ldquo;We are giving film makers, artists and original games developers a launch pad to premiere their content to an audience of international delegates, venture capitalists and broadcasters,&rdquo; said Mr. Moroney.