All Kenyans have a right to assemble, to demonstrate, to picket so long as they are peaceable and unarmed. That right is secured in law and nobody can take it away from them. But there is a worrying trend that has seemingly been normalised over time. Cases of aggrieved demonstrators blocking major roads are on the increase. However genuine their grievances are, trampling on the rights of others to achieve a cause is never the best way to do it. That very act of inconveniencing others goes against the very basis of a demonstration. Yesterday, traffic was paralysed along the Mai Mahiu-Limuru road after lorries transporting sand blocked it protesting against county taxes. The day before, Maili Saba residents in Bahati, Nakuru blocked the busy Nyahururu road. They were protesting the delays by the county and national governments to retrieve the body of a boy who had drowned in a dam. Many will recall the demonstrations called by the CORD coalition in May to force out Independent Electoral Boundaries Commissioners that turned violent. The siege at the Anniversary Towers in Nairobi turned bloody, with one Kenyan dying a needless death. Similar demonstrations were held across the country with looting and destruction of property reported. No one can begrudge the right of the aggrieved to air their grievances through demonstrations. But should those who demonstrate infringe on the rights of others to the point of causing loss of limb or life? Do the organisers think of the ailing man or woman or baby being rushed to emergency wards or those rushing to seal a business deal or catch a flight? READ MORE Five shot in downtown Seattle near scene of anti-Trump protests Protests rock Bomet county after Governor Isaac Ruto injured Five shot in downtown Seattle near scene of anti-Trump protests Demonstrations are meant to bring to the surface grave issues in society. They ought to prompt action from authorities. Unfortunately, acts that border on law-breaking and criminality ironically serve to erode what should be a basic right. The right to demonstrate should not be an excuse to disrupt people&#39;s businesses or disrupt the normalcy of life by blocking roads.