Sixty people living with disfigured lips will undergo corrective surgery at the Kisumu County Hospital over the next three days. Yesterday, eight children had successful surgery in an event organised by a team of surgeons from the Kenya Progressive Nurses Association in conjunction with the county government. Geoffrey Githinji, a surgeon, told journalists that cleft palate was one of the most common birth defects in the country. He noted that the high cost of surgery and insufficient equipment required in the corrective procedure had hampered their efforts to handle the many cases in the country. &quot;Some parents have opted to hide their children because of the high cost of the surgery, which could go up to Sh150,000 or even more,&quot; Mr Githinji said. He noted that the defection was caused by a physical split or separation of the two sides of the upper lip and appeared as a narrow opening or gap in the skin of the upper lip. READ MORE Rongo Sub-County Hospital driver arrested over attempted theft Crisis as medical staff in Murang'a join casual workers in protest Kisumu County split over tender saga as Sh280m ward fund row rages &quot;We hope that by the end of the exercise, we will have given up to 100 people normal lives through the surgery,&quot; he added. County Health Executive Elizabeth Ogaja was concerned by the high number of cleft lip cases in the county. &quot;We are aware that there are several cases. The surgery is a bit expensive and that is why we must engage partners to help patients with the condition,&quot; Ms Ogaja said. She urged parents to stop hiding children with the birth defect. &quot;It is saddening to note that some parents are still hiding their children. They should know that the sooner the children are identified, the easier it is to offer them surgery,&quot; she added. Regina Kenyi, whose child was born with the defect, said the high cost of treatment had prevented her from seeking treatment for her two-year-old daughter. &quot;The help from doctors who have promised to do the surgery for free is a blessing to me,&quot; said Ms Kenyi. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;