The International Criminal Court (ICC) is now seeking experts&rsquo; opinion in what could be the beginning of a process to address dissent and threats of withdrawal by member countries. A meeting, which dwelt on its cooperation with countries, was held at the seat of the court in The Hague, Netherlands on Friday. It was attended by 30 participants from more than 20 states and staff of the ICC and other international tribunals. A representative from the ICC Bar Association and capacity-building experts also attended. The court has been under pressure since the collapse of President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s case together with that of his deputy William Ruto in relation to the 2007 post-election violence. In October, Burundi, South Africa and the Gambia gave a notice to the United Nations of their decision to withdraw. This month, Russia, which is a signatory of the Rome Statute that established the court, also said it would remove its signature. Philippines is also considering withdrawing. Africa&rsquo;s strategy READ MORE Trump names Haley, a foreign policy novice, as envoy to U.N. Talks on reuniting Cyprus fail to strike deal, U.N. says Pulling Kenya&rsquo;s troops out of South Sudan is reckless The departures follow a sustained campaign by the Africa Union to depict the court as a colonial institution unfairly targeting African leaders. The court denies these claims, citing ongoing investigations in other jurisdictions such as Afghanistan, Iraq and Colombo. The Friday meeting at The Hague attended by Christian Mahr, Director of the Division of External Operations of the ICC Registry, sought to address operational challenges but prominently featured discussions on the court&rsquo;s relationship with countries. &ldquo;This forms part of larger continuing efforts to further advance cooperation with the court. It was organised by the ICC in close cooperation with the Permanent Representative of the Netherlands to the ICC and with the financial support of the European Commission,&rdquo; said a dispatch from the court. &ldquo;The full and effective implementation of the cooperation framework foreseen in the Rome Statute, including through cooperation agreements, has a direct impact on the length of proceedings and required financial resources,&rdquo; said Mahr. Mr Paul Wilke, Permanent Representative of Netherlands to the ICC, stressed the importance of full cooperation with the court: &ldquo;The ICC cannot work well without your countries&rsquo; support,&rdquo; he told the experts. ICC Spokesman Fadi El Abdallah confirmed to The Standard on Sunday that the discussions were related to cooperation between the court and states. He did not, however, disclose resolutions of the meeting. It was also not clear who the experts were and how their participation was ought. African countries, under AU, have been particularly vocal against The Hague-based court despite the fact that the continent has been historically vulnerable to crimes against humanity.