Former Kathiani MP Wavinya Ndeti has named Governor Alfred Mutua&rsquo;s former ally as her running mate. Ms Ndeti unveiled lawyer Boniface Kabaka, a former legal adviser with the Machakos County Government, as she launched her campaigns for the Machakos gubernatorial seat. The Chama Cha Uzalendo (CCU) party leader was addressing hundreds of supporters at her Kinanie home in Mavoko constituency at the weekend. In the 2013 General Election, Kabaka polled second to Johnstone Muthama in the senatorial race, but was later hired by Mutua&rsquo;s administration before falling out with the governor over claims he (Dr Mutua) had ignored professional advice. There had been widespread speculation that Wavinya would team up with Mutua&rsquo;s deputy Bernard Kiala, who has also declared interest in becoming the next governor of Machakos. Political pundits believed a Wavinya-Kiala combination could easily send Mutua home, but sources say the arrangement failed to materialise after the two reportedly differed over who would run for governor. READ MORE Apologise now or else... Mutua tells Kalonzo Quorum hitch saves Governor Mutua from impeachment Quorum hitch feared in Governor Alfred Mutua removal bid Senator Johnstone Muthama, who is considered an influential leader in Wiper Party, has been selling the candidature of Kiala and is on record urging smaller parties in Ukambani, including Wavinya&rsquo;s CCU, to fold up and join the Kalonzo Musyoka-led party. PARTY INTACT But Wavinya vowed she would not dissolve her party under any circumstances. &ldquo;We as a party have resolved we will support Kalonzo Musyoka as the Wiper presidential candidate. We also have no problem with (Senator) Muthama&rsquo;s race for the Senate seat. But on the gubernatorial race, it must be known by all that I will be contesting on a CCU party ticket,&rdquo; she said amid cheers from the crowd. Wavinya also said CCU will field candidates for the woman representative, MP and MCA seats in next year&rsquo;s General Election. &ldquo;The song about so-called smaller parties folding up to join Wiper is absolutely unacceptable. CCU also followed the same procedures as the others in its registration and we cannot fold up to join another entity,&rdquo; she declared. Wavinya was also marking 40 days since the death of her husband Prince Henry Oduwole. &ldquo;Days of mourning my late husband are now over and I am inviting the great people of Machakos to begin the grand march to redeem our county from the chains of bad governance and corruption,&rdquo; said Wavinya.