The auditor who lifted the lid on the Sh5 billion Health ministry scandal has said his report raised important questions that require answers. Bernard Muchere told the Senate&#39;s Health Committee there is need for the ministry to account for the money whose expenditure his leaked audit questioned. &quot;I have no doubts about the leaked report. It was the same one I worked on,&quot; he told the team led by Migori Senator Wilfred Machage. Muchere, who heads the Internal Audit Unit at the ministry, yesterday said it was Cabinet Secretary Cleopa Mailu who asked him to carry out the audit. Mailu had told the committee he did not commission the audit as claimed, the reason he declined to act on it. &quot;Interim reports are not very common but they are done after request by the management, to give it a picture of what is happening in an institution.&nbsp;I embarked on the audit and the report was exclusively meant for the CS, who asked me to do it,&quot; Muchere said. READ MORE Heavily indebted MCAs struggle to pay millions in loans by 2017 Muraguri, Mailu close ranks against Afya auditors New health ministry audit report expected next week &quot;He (Dr Mailu) instructed me to do the audit. It was intended to give the CS information to enable him make decisions. It wasn&#39;t for anything else.&quot;&nbsp; However, the auditor was reluctant when asked if he agreed with the figures on the amount the ministry may have lost, only saying the analysis was wrong. &quot;It is only the analysis of the figures that I read in the newspapers I do not agree with,&quot; Muchere said.&nbsp; Mailu and his PS Nicholas Muraguri have denied claims the ministry has lost Sh5 billion, insisting only Sh3.1 billion is yet to be accounted for. When they appeared before the committee, Mailu and Muraguri turned the heat on Muchere, accusing him of leaking the report to the media. The report pointed out that Sh800 million was paid to a firm, Estama Investment Ltd, to supply 100 mobile clinics way before the facilities were delivered. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;