A company mentioned in the Health ministry saga says it received Sh265 million for supplies made in August.Lifecare Medics Ltd said the money was put in a ministry account at Cooperative Bank in the last financial year after its request for the ministry to ensure it is paid from the 2015/2016 budget. In documents provided, the firm says the ministry went ahead to make an undertaking, through a Letter of Credit, where it guaranteed payment for the commodities to be delivered.Lifecare Medics wrote to the ministry on June 27, three days to the close of the 2015/2016 financial year, indicating the consignment was already in production overseas. The company asked the Health ministry to ensure the goods are paid for with money from the budget of the year the procurement was made.&quot;Please be informed we have already ordered the above mentioned consignment which is under production and the expected dispatch date is 15/07/2016,&quot; the firm&#39;s director, identified as R. Waweru, wrote to Health PS Nicholas Muraguri.Following the request, ministry officials asked Cooperative Bank to open a Letter of Credit in favour of Lifecare Medics. The costs would be borne by the company, the ministry&#39;s accountants said in the letter to the bank dated June 29. This was a day before the last financial year ended.Consequently, the ministry committed funds to pay Lifecare Medics at a later date. Had it not done so, then the ministry would have been forced to send back to the National Treasury, money in its accounts, as is the practice at the end of every financial year. This would have meant Lifecare Medics be paid in the following financial year and this is what the firm, it appears, was out to avoid.A report of an interim audit into the ministry&#39;s spending had questioned the decision to open the Letter of Credit. However, in its documents, the supplier said it needed a guarantee of payment then because the goods were to arrive after the close of the financial year. They asked the ministry to send money to the bank in advance to avoid delays.Generally, a Letter of Credit is a letter from a bank guaranteeing a buyer&#39;s payment to a seller will be received on time and for the correct amount. In the event the buyer is unable to make payment, the bank is required to cover the full or remaining amount of the purchase.&nbsp;&nbsp;Bernard Muchere, the auditor, appeared uncomfortable with the ministry&#39;s decision to pay for goods that had not be delivered.However, Dr Muraguri defended the payment to Cooperative Bank, saying it is standard practice for payments of goods, particularly if they are imported.