There was panic yesterday at Tuskys Supermarket Tom Mboya Street, Nairobi when a lone gunman raided and took away unknown amount of money. He escaped after shooting in the air, causing panic at the busy supermarket Wednesday night. Police and witnesses said the gunman walked into the tills at the supermarket at about 7 pm before he confronted a cashier at gunpoint and later grabbed an unknown amount of money before escaping. The area is usually packed at that hour. He shot in&nbsp;the air as he escaped forcing shoppers at the busy mall to scamper out for their safety. &quot;People ran out screaming as they thought there were more gunmen therein. The gunman had escaped in the confusion,&quot; said Nairobi police boss Japheth Koome. Police say they have clues that they are pursuing in the incident. Detectives visited the scene to reassure the crowd that was gathering things were well and the gunman had escaped. CCTV footage captured during the robbery will help police in identifying the gunman. In Dandora, a suspected thug was shot dead and a gun found on him. The man was in the company of three others and had been harassing and robbing from pedestrians and motorists when police were alerted. Police say they recovered a pistol from the deceased man and that his accomplices managed to escape in the confusion. And an Administration Police officer has been arrested over claims of defilement in Kiambiu slums, Nairobi. The officer is alleged to have defiled a 15-year-old girl in the slum before a complaint was made. He was arrested and held at the Buruburu police station awaiting further action. READ MORE Twelve bodies found in southwestern Mexico DPP Tobiko orders arrest and prosecution of city lawyer Man who stabbed magistrate in Nakuru court admits attempted murder charge Elsewhere, police are investigating the authenticity of a gun found in possession of a senior Nairobi County official. The official was arrested and released on bond pending probe after a complaint was lodged that a gun he has been carrying is illegal and is not registered. There are claims the employee who works in the revenue and parking section doesn&#39;t have a permit for the pistol. In the city centre, a street child was arrested with an illegal gun. The suspect is said to have shown his colleagues the weapon along Kenyatta Avenue before he was arrested.