Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi has protested the delay in the probe into a multi-million shilling fraud at his administration. But as Kingi was speaking in Kilifi, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) released a statement from Mombasa saying suspects in the Sh51 million electronic banking fraud will be charged in two weeks. An official of the embattled county government also released a new statement discounting reports that Sh1.18 billion had been lost in recent months. And yesterday, EACC also concurred with this assessment, indicating that available information shows that only Sh51 million was lost through the manipulation of the Integrated Management Financial Information System (Ifmis) between September 29 and October, with the money being wired into the bank accounts of five Nairobi based companies. EACC deputy CEO Michael Mubea told a forum in Mombasa yesterday that the probe is nearing conclusion. &ldquo;We received a report that Sh 30 million was lost at the county but our probe shows that it is Sh51 million. The probe is at an advanced stage and suspects will be arraigned in court in two weeks,&rdquo; Mubea said, adding that reports that Sh1.18 billion had been lost are inaccurate. READ MORE EACC has failed Uhuru in graft war, says Jubilee legislator MPs demand lifestyle audit of Kilifi county officials CBK dips into foreign reserves to shore up shilling Verified payments Last evening, Kilifi County Finance Chief Officer Ben Kai Chilumo said in a signed statement that Sh51,569,775, not Sh1.18 billion, was stolen. &ldquo;We came to learn that the allegations of the loss of Sh1.18 billion were based on a list of payments made by the county government. We have verified these payments and are all genuine transactions made by the county government for goods and services rendered,&rdquo; said Mr Chilumo. &ldquo;Some of the payments are for taxes withheld and paid to the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA), while some are monies paid to our project retention account held at the Diamond Trust Bank.&rdquo; Mr Chilumo also said he has verified that Sh340 million of the Sh1.18 billion were inter-account transfers between Kilifi County bank accounts and Central Bank of Kenya. Speaking at Vipingo in his county, Kingi said despite the county government efforts to furnish EACC with names of companies and directors whose companies benefited from the funds, no one has been arrested. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;