Preparations for next year&rsquo;s General Election are off to a bumpy start, with fears rife that operational challenges faced in 2013 could return to haunt the process. The multi-billion shilling ballot paper printing contract is already hit by controversy at a time the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) is struggling to beat the August 2017 election timelines. The contract, whose procurement process commenced close to four months ago in August 17, 2016, is now subject of litigation at the Public Procurement Review Board. Coming against the backdrop of the Chickengate scandal that has been under investigation by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, events around the matter could have significant ramifications on the delivery of the next polls. Even as IEBC, through lawyer Anthony Lubulellah, argues the award of the tender to Al Ghurair was above board, Paarl Media, a South African company has filed the petition against IEBC, arguing the tendering was not fair and for that reason should be re-advertised. READ MORE Opposition: Jubilee, IEBC plot to postpone elections Apologise now or else... Mutua tells Kalonzo Running mate headache in race for Kisumu governorship The board is tomorrow expected to deliver a ruling on whether IEBC should proceed to sign the contract with the Dubai-based Al Ghurair Printing Company or have it re-advertised. But more worrying is the delay in the recruitment of commissioners. It was expected that the commission would be reconstituted by mid next month to allow them hit the ground running. At the same time, the new election laws require that verification of voters using biometric data be undertaken for 30 days at least 90 days before elections. This means the register must be opened four months before the August General Election. It had been expected that the register would be opened for public scrutiny by April 10 but that should have been preceded by mass voter registration to get 8 million new voters. It now remains to be seen if all these and other crucial programmes will be realised given the delay in appointing new commissioners and the setbacks facing procurement of ballot papers. CORD and Jubilee have already sought to be enjoined in the proceedings at the procurement board. Although the board admitted them as interested parties, it also restricted their submissions to issues in question. Meanwhile, IEBC, with a budget of Sh20 billion this year alone, has become a key target for a web of vendors, brokers and political players. Numerous procurement related litigation are likely to come by. When the tender for the supply of ballot papers was advertised by the IEBC, records show only nine companies submitted their bids. They include Ellams Products Ltd, Manipal Technologies Ltd, Paarl Media (Pty) Ltd, KL Hi-tech Secure Print Ltd, Al Ghuraiar Printing &amp; Publishing, Baltijas Banknote, Digit Print Supplies SRL, Tall Security Print Ltd and United Printing &amp; Publishing. Of the nine, only Ellams Products Ltd was a local company, the rest being from different countries. Minutes of the Tender Opening show that while each company was to submit tender security worth Sh5 million, Paarl Media Ltd and United Printing &amp; Publishing did not attach the tender security. The minutes further indicate that three companies submitted samples of ballot papers bearing names of different company names. Paarl Media submitted samples from Novus Holdings, Baltijas Banknote had samples from Baltic Banknote while Digital Print Supplies had samples from Digital Processing Systems. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;