Jubilee Party will in two weeks name individuals to spearhead President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s re-election bid and steer party matters at the county level. Since its inception, JP&rsquo;s representation away from the national office has been one of the most contentious issues around the new outfit. In some counties, aspirants have exchanged blows and traded barbs in a bid to install themselves as regional party leaders and spokespersons. This decision, the party hopes, will stem revolt and controversy. &ldquo;Party officials will be recruited and appointed by the secretariat to run party affairs in all the 47 counties,&rdquo; Raphael Tuju, the head of Jubilee secretariat, told The Standard on Saturday. &ldquo;This will be done through a competitive process and in some instances through head-hunting.&rdquo; JP says party county officials will not be determined by a vote, but by appointment by the 61-member secretariat recently named by President Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto. READ MORE EACC has failed Uhuru in graft war, says Jubilee legislator Farmers in Kenya need State backing to improve earnings Deputy Governor Kiala daughter found after kidnap claims Mr Tuju says the party could not hold elections for the posts because &ldquo;it would take too much of a toll on the party to have two elections before the main presidential elections in August 2017&rdquo;. He says the party&rsquo;s constitution states it will hold polls 90 days after the national elections. The formation of Jubilee Party led to jostling for positions in its strongholds of Central and Rift Valley regions, as politicians from both URP and TNA saw party positions as a key stepping stone to winning elective seats. Consequently, former party stalwarts countrywide quickly declared themselves de-facto leaders and spokespersons of Jubilee at the county level. Some even opened what they call party offices. And after the naming of the regional campaign teams, some aspirants eyeing the party&rsquo;s ticket have been crying foul, fearing the inclusion of their rivals might compromise nominations. They have been calling for the naming of grassroots officials to take charge of party affairs at the counties. Yesterday, Tuju clarified that no Jubilee office have been opened yet. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;