I am a woman and I have a pocketful of cards. There is always a card in play. It might be the humanity card, which tends to engage without notice when a friend or a family member needs help. Or when a child sticks a sponsorship form in your face as you&rsquo;re dashing out of the supermarket &ndash; you try to run but just when you&rsquo;re about to make a clean getaway a sharp tug on your heart strings yanks you back, and you find yourself making a donation without even knowing the cause. It might be the parenthood card, one that is always on the table, and which will usually trump all others. When the house help calls - for whatever reason - even before you pick up the phone your parenthood card is at the ready should you need to drop everything to attend to your child. It might be the professional card, a card that is flashed by female employees around the world when they put their career hats on and become bona fide members of the productive classes. READ MORE Let&rsquo;s all speak against gender-bashing in Kenya Women who wake up every morning to build the nation for the betterment of their children and their children&rsquo;s children. It might be the entrepreneurship card, played every single day by women in business. Women who jostle in the teeming crowd of hopefuls who want to make it big in the business world, hustling hard to make a success of enterprise. It might be the politics card, which women toss on the table when they engage in politics at every level. Whether we like it or not, as citizens &ndash; both male and female &ndash; we are political creatures. Politics is not just about governments and power, but about ideology, morality and ethics. It is the total complex of relations between people living in society and as women, we must learn to appreciate that many of our interactions have political impact. How we engage at the grassroots level, the way in which we influence community relations, will eventually show up in the character of our leaders. So when a male politician uses a female politician&rsquo;s sexual history as the point of reference for all her other achievements, then we are all getting our politics wrong. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;