Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has said it is a shame for Ukambani residents to continue languishing in the ashes of poverty, neglect and hopelessness despite having certain local leaders in senior government positions in the past. Dr Mutua took a swipe at some Ukambani leaders who have served for long in positions of power yet they have nothing to show in terms of development. &quot;These leaders still want to be elected yet they only aspire to fill their stomachs while the rest of the people are sleeping hungry. They must be rejected,&quot; the governor said. Speaking at Kisasi Deputy County Commissioner&#39;s compound in Kitui Rural constituency, Mutua said that Ukambani has gone through decades of marginalisation and lack of people-centred projects due to egoism and retrogressive politics by those who have been in leadership. The governor reminded the Wiper leader and former Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka that the era of imposing leaders on the electorate in Ukambani is gone. Mutua who has fallen out with Kalonzo said the people will no longer accept leaders, just because they are from the &#39;correct&#39; party. READ MORE Governor Mutua vows Maendeleo Chap Chap will deliver Uhuru votes Kalonzo was right to tell Muthama off, leaders say ODM senator endorses Kalonzo for CORD presidential ticket He said although Kalonzo&#39;s Wiper party still dominates the region, there is no development to show for the 28 years the former Vice President worked with successive governments of former Presidents Jomo Kenyatta, Daniel Moi and Mwai Kibaki. &quot;He has nothing to show as an MP, cabinet minister and even as a Vice President. Let him point out what he did to the people of Ukambani or is it only poverty and hopelessness?&quot; asked Mutua. Mutua said people in Kitui, Machakos and Makueni could have reaped more from former and current government if Kalonzo was more alert and active. The governor told off critics of his Maendeleo Chap Chap in Ukambani and vowed to soldier on his development agenda. &quot;My desire is to liberate the region politically and economically. Those who are opposed to my crisscrossing of the region to sell my party&#39;s ideology are the biggest enemies of the people. Please ignore such characters,&quot; he said. Mutua called for unity of purpose among all leaders and urged them to exercise political tolerance. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;