Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen has said former Devolution CS Anne Waiguru should be prosecuted over the National Youth Service (NYS) theft because all fingers pointed at her as the main culprit. Ms Waiguru has adversely mentioned Murkomen and Deputy President William Ruto&#39;s aide Farouk Kibet as having been involved in the NYS scandal. In her testimony, Waiguru questioned payments labelled &quot;legal fees&quot; made to Murkomen from firms linked to Ben Gethi, who is among the prime suspects. &quot;Let everyone carry his or her cross instead of shifting blame to other innocent individuals. Her testimony is shrouded in lies and I will not carry the cross of NYS because I rendered legal service,&quot; said a visibly agitated Murkomen. The senator who poked holes into Waiguru&#39;s testimony over the scam said his law firm was not the only one that dealt with NYS suspects and it was unfair to link him to the scandal. &quot;It is our job as lawyers to represent anybody including criminals, murderers, and thieves the same way doctors in hospitals treat their patients without bothering to check on their background,&quot; he said. READ MORE Soon, we may adopt corruption as an acceptable Kenyan way of life House probe team puts 28 banks on the spot over Sh1.6b NYS scandal NYS to train matatu operators on discipline and safety He dared Waiguru to present any form of payment documents made to his law firm since they have not received even a dime. He has vowed not to relent until he clears his name. Speaking at Kolowa Bridge during the launch of NYS projects graced by Public Service Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki, Murkomen likened Waiguru to the Biblical Jezebel who used her proximity to access government classified information to entangle innocent people. The leaders had commissioned a road construction project that will link Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo and West Pokot counties and help combat the rising cattle rising incidents in the area. He said the evidence so far adduced is sufficient to arraign her in a court of law though she is presumed innocent until proven guilty. &quot;If she is not going to be charged to answer NYS scandal, it means corruption should be legalised too so that each Kenyan is accorded an opportunity to loot,&quot; he said. He added: &quot;As a Sunday School teacher I have never stolen offerings and I cannot be sucked into this scam.&quot; GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;