Homa Bay County health department now targets commercial sex workers and elders in the fight against HIV and AIDS. This follows an HIV prevalence rate of about 26 percent which has sparked reactions among Government officials in Homa Bay. The county executive for Health, Lawrence Oteng&#39; said the county is now ranked number one countrywide in HIV prevalence and the county government must now develop a multi-sectoral approach to help fight the scourge. The county has formed committees from villages to help sensitize people on how to reduce HIV infection rate. The County Director in charge of disasters Eliud Onyango said the committees are composed of commercial sex workers, elders, professionals, and other stakeholders to help curb spread of the disease. He decried cultural practises such as widow inheritance as some of the major risks which encourage spread of the virus, adding that engaging elders to combat cultural practices which predispose area residents to risks of contracting AIDS will be a major focus. READ MORE Chinese drug aims at taming HIV/AIDS related complications We did not fight over Sh4m say MCAs Panic in Lake Victoria as Homa Bay fishermen net six live bombs &quot;Cultural factors which lead to HIV infection rate can only be dealt with by elders. We are going to involve them to enable the community refrain from risky cultural practices,&quot; said Onyango. The Director said commercial sex workers are going to be helpful in the campaigns to give real life experience on socio-economic challenges which predispose people to HIV infection and how to combat them. &quot;HIV infection in this county increases due to lack of information and other challenges. The committees will be tasked with identifying the challenges and coming up with solutions to enable us fight the scourge,&quot; said Onyango. He said the campaign is also going to involve Non-Government organizations to help them achieve their mission of reducing the infection rate substantially by 2019. According to Dr Oteng&#39; Mbita, Rangwe and Rachuonyo North sub counties are leading in the county with the highest HIV prevalence rate. He cited inadequate funding as one of the challenges which impede the fight against the virus.