Uasin Gishu County Assembly Speaker Isaac Terer will face Members of the County Assembly today over allegations that he swindled an athlete out of millions of shillings. As the assembly prepares to discuss the fraud allegations against Mr Terer, the complainant, double World Indoor 1,500m silver medallist Daniel Kipchirchir Komen, yesterday filed a complaint with the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission in Nairobi. Terer is accused of defrauding the athlete over Sh21 million. Mr Komen was accompanied to the Integrity Centre by his lawyer Elvis Majani and 2004 Olympics steeplechase bronze medallist Paul Kipsiele Koech. He was grilled for over two hours and asked to bring his supporting documents today (Wednesday). &ldquo;We accompanied my client to record a statement with the EACC in Nairobi who promised they will get back to us soon,&rdquo; his lawyer said The athlete has already filed a case at the Environment and Lands Court in Eldoret through Wambilianga, Majani and Associates which comes up for hearing on November 24 under a certificate of urgency. Komen claims he entrusted the lawyer to help him purchase land in Eldoret worth Sh12 million but later learnt that he had secretly inserted his name on the sale agreement to indicate that they bought it jointly. READ MORE Protect Kenyan athletes' earnings At the assembly, Leader of Majority Josphat Lowoi made a request to have the matter discussed today after MCAs said the issue had raised concern among residents. The matter has generated a lot interest in the county that takes pride in her world-renowned athletes. MCAs had earlier held a meeting where they questioned Terer. He denied the alleged fraud. &ldquo;There is a developing story that is currently ongoing in the print and electronic media along with social sites and locals are concerned and it cannot be put to rest because the allegations have continued to raise concern and curiosity among the residents of Uasin Gishu County,&rdquo; said Moi&rsquo;s Bridge MCA Daniel Sanga. Terer, who presided over yesterday&rsquo;s session in the assembly, said he will excuse himself from leading the house today because he is at the heart of the matter. Mr Lowoi said the matter touches on the conduct of the Speaker and he needs time to meet him and his accuser before tabling his report before the House today. &ldquo;The House deserves accuracy because it is a delicate matter and that is why I will ensure that I get facts from Terer and Komen before 2.30pm because we cannot only rely on what was brought forth by the media,&rdquo; he said. Komen claims he approached Terer eight years ago to assist him buy the property, but the Assembly Speaker reportedly used the documents to have the wealth registered in his name. &ldquo;He secured a house for me in the posh Elgon View Estate in Eldoret, but the deal never materialised after it became evident that property was at the centre of a legal dispute and later struck another deal after his fellow lawyer opted to sell his own house.&rdquo; GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;