The saga of a 34-acre piece of land bought by the county at a controversial price of Sh340 million has taken a new twist. A farmer&#39;s co-operative society now says the land in question belongs to its members, and that it had been gr&lrm;abbed prior to its transfer to the county government.&lrm; Over 3,000 members of the Methi and Swani Farmers Co-operative accused some powerful forces of taking advantage of an uncleared bank loan four years ago to acquire the piece of land. &lrm;According to Zack Irungu&lrm;, one of the pioneer members of the society, the farmers owed Co-operative Bank of Kenya Sh269 million as principal and accrued interest after defaulting on a Sh2 million loan acquired in 1989. As a result, the society&#39;s property, which included 800 acres of land in Thika and Murang&#39;a were to be auctioned to recover &lrm;the loan.&lrm;&lrm; It later emerged that the bank had written off the debt. By then, the farmers claim, some individuals had taken advantage of the situation to transfer the land and get titles. READ MORE Stolen Sh51m Kilifi county cash sent to five city firms Murang'a County told to pay health workers JSC's Ojienda contests Sh378m tax fraud claim &quot;Some individuals colluded and took advantage of our situation to transfer and get the title deed of the land in question,&quot; said Mr Irungu. He said that as shareholders they did not know how the company that sold the land to the county government acquired it. The society has vowed to pursue the matter in Parliament with the assistance of Maragua legislator Peter Kamande. &quot;We are in the preliminary stages of preparing a petition to Parliament so that they can look into this matter. As shareholders we feel wronged because this is our land,&quot; Irungu said. The retired systems analyst told The Standard that the land was a coffee plantation until around 2012 when the bushes were cleared and the land left dormant over a debt owed to Co-operative Bank of Kenya. Kamande, who is among the people who have questioned the purchase price of the land, confirmed that the farmers had approached him to take their petition to Parliament. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;