Political leaders from Baringo and Elgeyo Marakwet counties Thursday snubbed a peace meeting organised by the National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC). The meeting chaired by NCIC Chairman Francis ole Kaparo and held in Nakuru town was meant to seek ways to end the rivalry between communities living in Kerio Valley. Elders from the warring Pokot and Marakwet communities called for an end to cattle rustling, destruction of property and killings. Mr Kaparo said it was regrettable that despite the endless clashes in the valley, political leaders led by governors, MPs and senators boycotted the meeting even after being invited. &quot;Only Tiaty MP Asman Kamama called to convey his apologies. Politicians should be clearly told that they cannot lead dead people and the time for them to come out and reject conflict is now,&quot; he said. Only MCAs from affected wards attended the meeting. They accused the national government of being lax and security officers of allowing the violence to escalate. READ MORE Exposed: 32 most tribalistic counties in Kenya One tribe hogs constitutional commissions jobs in Kenya, says study Shame of Kenyan public universities promoting tribalism in hiring Baringo security officers attended the meeting but their counterparts from Elgeyo Marakwet did not. Cattle rustlers &quot;Evidence indicates that rogue political elements could be supplying cattle rustlers with firearms to get votes. This kind of information is with police investigators but they have decided to sit on it,&quot; said Endo Ward MCA Festus Kiprop. Clashes in the region over the past four months have left at least 30 people dead and thousands of others displaced. Baringo County Commissioner Peter Okwanyo described a decision by the Baringo county government to compensate Marakwet watermelon farmers after Pokot youths allegedly destroyed their crops valued at Sh5.5 million. &quot;The money should have gone to development and if the county has decided to pay for the losses, then some important government projects will have to be shelved,&quot; he said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;