Legislators from Nyanza have told leaders from other parties aspiring to be the CORD presidential flag bearer to join the queue and fight for their space.They spoke on a day that CORD co-principal Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula said he was not aware of talks between ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and CORD over the prospects by the opposition to field a single presidential candidate. The Nyanza MPs led by Siaya Senator James Orengo insisted that Raila Odinga must vie for the Presidency and warned that those trying to enter the race through the back door must join the queue.CORD leaders now say former Prime Minister Raila Odinga will contest the presidency next year and that anyone wishing to be endorsed by the ODM leader should hold their horses.They warned that those trying enter the race through the &ldquo;back door&rdquo; must join the long queue of aspirants interested in the CORD ticket.The leaders said they would not give out the presidency on a silver platter to latecomers, adding they were backing Raila because of his past sacrifices in the fight for the democratic space for many years.The politicians, who included Senators James Orengo, Hassan Omar, Moses Kajwang, Prof Anyang&rsquo; Nyong&rsquo;o and MPs Fred Outa and James Nyikal said those eyeing the top seat through CORD must prove their worth.Elsewhere, CORD co-principal and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula said he was not aware of negotiations between ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and CORD on a possible working arrangement towards fielding a single presidential candidate.He said he has no problem if Mudavadi joins his side. Wetang&rsquo;ula said currently, they are seeking support of Kenyans to ascend to the top seat through their respective parties, which is a constitutional right for everyone.He further indicated he will continue walking the same path with Raila but asked him to shelve his ambitions and support him. &ldquo;I have no problem with Mudavadi. He is in Amani and I am in CORD. I have told him we can work together so as to redeem the image of Western region and the country at large,&rdquo; Wetang&rsquo;ula said.He added: &ldquo;Last time, Raila was in front. Right now, he should leave Wetang&rsquo;ula to lead. I am one of your own. A mother cannot leave his malnourished child just because the neighbour has a healthy child. You must nurture your own child.&rdquo;The Senate Minority Leader spoke at a women&rsquo;s conference at African Divine Church headquarters at Boyani in Vihiga County, where he emphasised the church&rsquo;s instrumental role in restoring social order.Water Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa, Vihiga Governor Moses Akaranga, MPs Charles Gimose (Hamisi), Emmanuel Wangwe (Navakholo), Moses Kuria (Gatundu) and several MCAs attended the event. And speaking at Kit Mikayi Grounds in Seme where Prof Nyongo was launching his bid for the Kisumu gubernatorial seat, the CORD leaders led by Orengo insisted Raila would not step down in favour of anyone. It was Kajwang who set the tone when he said the Luo community had all their hopes heaped on Raila and could not imagine him passing the baton to anyone else.&ldquo;Luoland&nbsp; is&nbsp; not willing to donate the presidency to anybody else. Our presidential candidate has been Raila and it remains him. Our support for him&nbsp; can neither be substituted or transferred,&rdquo; said Kajwang.He added: &ldquo; We support him because he has fought for devolution that we now enjoy. He is the man who has brought most of the projects Jubilee has been taking credit for.&rdquo;Senator Omar said: &ldquo;We heard Mudavadi (Musalia) saying the other the other day that he cannot work with Jubilee. That is good, but you cannot work with yourself. So the best place for him is to work with CORD to help us remove Jubilee from power.&rdquo;He added: &ldquo;We welcome everyone but let them know when they come, they will not&nbsp; get in through the back door because there is a queue. We are practical about numbers but we are also practical about consistency,&rdquo;&nbsp; says&nbsp; Omar.Omar said CORD was intact despite reports that it has had problems choosing the presidential flag bearer. &ldquo;People are saying CORD is undecided. I can assure you it is intact and remains the best bet at forming a government with a vision and ideologies,&rdquo; he said. Outa said he could not fathom a 2017 presidential elections without Raila.&ldquo;Raila will be on the ballot in 2017. Whoever thinks that we can let Raila hand over the ticket is daydreaming,&rdquo; said the Nyando MP.Orengo said Raila is CORD&rsquo;s best bet. &ldquo;Our candidate is Raila Odinga and we are working on electoral forms to have free and fair polls,&rdquo; he said. The leaders called on Jubilee MPs not to interfere with the contents of the report by the Joint Parliamentary Select Committee on IEBC reforms.The speakers accused Jubilee of trying to interfere with the report in a bid to prolong the debate and cause confusion in the electoral calendar. Outa said&nbsp; the amendments being pushed&nbsp; by Jubilee were illegal.&ldquo;Kenyans died in the streets fighting for these reforms,&rdquo; said&nbsp; Outa.Orengo said: &ldquo;We also need a full audit of the electoral register.&rdquo;