KAKAMEGA: From a pastor to a landlord owning 20 one and two roomed units in Kakamega.Three months after winning Sh10 million jackpot, Samson Juma, 46, has also bought plots at Butali market, Malava, Kitale and Eldoret. And the Kenya Assembly of God pastor is looking forward to begin collecting rental income next month from his investment in Malava sub-county.&quot;From next month, the rentals will be ready for tenants. I expect to get some good money. I have constructed rentals and business premises. There are schools and a hospital around in the village and housing has been a problem for quite some time,&quot; said Juma.His mCHEZA fortune of Sh10, 724,314 that he won in April is being felt by locals in Shikutse village.He has created employment for more than 10 youths in the village as well as his family members.&quot;Transport in the village is a problem, I bought five motorbikes which I have given out to youths to use for ferrying residents and in the evening they bring me something. Also I bought plots at Butali market, Malava, Kitale and Eldoret,&quot; Juma said. In future, Juma plans to venture into a series of charity projects like putting up a centre to help widows and orphans from the areas.He is confident that he will be able to provide for his seven children by educating them. &quot;After receiving financial advice from various experts on how to manage the money, I opened a saving account for my children,&quot; he noted.He added, &quot;I will be able to give my children a successful future, one which I could only dream of. My wish is to see them successful. I also want to touch the lives of others by helping them have a better life.&quot;Juma is still thanking God for the fortune.&quot;My family can now afford a three course meal. My children can go to school without any worry of being send back home for fees and proper uniform unlike in the past years where I have been depending on the church members for my living.&quot;Even with the newly acquired wealth, Juma is still a preacher in the village. He has tried his hand in real estate and bodaboda business.&quot;When I was called and told I am the winner, at first I dismissed them saying they are conmen. I didn&#39;t believe, it felt like a dream and only believed it when I alighted at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport and saw the mCHEZA vehicle which was waiting for me to take me where the ceremony was taking place,&quot; Juma recalled.When Juma won the bet and the money credited in his bank account, he immediately forgot about his financial pressure and sought counselling from financial experts.Initially he has been staying on half an acre farm with family of over 12 people, who included his parents.&quot;After receiving the money, I stayed in Nairobi for one week as the mCHEZA team took me to various banks where I received tips on investing and managing my finances,&quot; he said.He travelled back to his village and talked to his wife and they decided to settle on real estate and bodaboda businesses.Juma noted that he has not stopped betting and he wins at least sh 5000 to sh 10000 on a regular basis.&quot;The first thing I did when I received the money in my account, I gave part of it for Fungu la kumi (tithe) since it was God doings. I also plan to help widows and needy children in order to reduce poverty in this region,&quot; the elated Juma said.He says in the coming days he will be light of the region by empowering youths.