My name is Eric Lijodi. I was born blind but that has not stopped me from achieving my dream career of being a teacher. I had passion for teaching and I am now a teacher at Emulama Primary School in Kakamega County. I have taught for three years now. When I started teaching, it was such a struggle that I almost gave up. I have learned that in life, adversity is no match for perseverance.It&rsquo;s not about vision but about connecting with the students. Students will not learn much even from those with sight if the teacher doesn&rsquo;t care about them. I use braille machine for lesson preparation, planning and making schemes of work. To manage classroom discipline, I chat with the pupils to understand them and know where each of them sits.I constantly move around the classroom during lessons. As I teach, I am usually close to my pupils and this prevents unruly behaviour.I speak directly to them and illustrate diagrams using words. I usually talk so much because I explain everything with words. When answering questions, pupils say their names first instead of raising up their hands.I get help from a reader with sight to perform certain tasks like marking attendance records, administrative paperwork and writing grades on report cards. I use an overhead projector to present what would normally be written on the chalkboard. Other alternatives to writing on the chalkboard which I use include flash cards, flip charts, and posters. When I need to have something written on the chalkboard, I ask my helper or student to write it for me as I dictate. To avoid cases of student cheating on tests, I always have a sighted person to monitor tests. My reader helps me to mark all the tests and papers.I teach creative arts, social studies class and Christian Religious Education.&nbsp; The main challenge I face is getting a&nbsp; trustworthy helper. Helpers also demand a lot of money. And when a helper is annoyed with you, they can write or give you wrong information.My wife is also visually impaired. Doing chores at home is challenging and our security is also a major problem.I have also trained in marketing, community development and social entrepreneurship in India.