You and your colleague flew in to serve the visiting Ticad delegates with authentic Japanese cuisine. Why was this necessary?You see, this is the first Ticad conference on African soil. It is a great honour for Kenya to be selected as the first African country to hold the event that will bring thousands of delegates here. We felt there was no better way for the delegates to sample our rich heritage than to bring our well-known hospitality here. The same treatment that is given to leisure travellers must also be accorded business travellers. Our presence will go a long way in promoting Japanese culture on the continent. What does your partnering with Villa Rosa Kempinski, one of the leading hotels, mean for the local hospitality industry?Kempinski has several restaurants of international standards and which have to compete with other stand-alone entities in the city. We are here to strengthen that international scope of an establishment based on African soil. Kenyans have become global citizens and appreciate the finer things in life.Take us through your hospitality journeyI am the owner and head chef at Tobiume Restaurant in Kita - Kyushu. I began my career when I joined Washoku Kaiseki Restaurant after high school. I worked in several hotels and restaurants such as Daiwa Resort Hotels, Genkai Royal Hotel, and Tonami Royal Hotel where I served as the sous chef. I also gained immense experience at Shinshu Matsushiro Royal Hotel.But is your presence here not an indictment on the several Japanese restaurants in Nairobi?Let us be honest. Not all of these eateries are on top of their game. I have had a chance to look at some of the menus and the pricing. If they were really making what they claim, the prices would be way too high for many to afford. Some of the foods on their menu would cost $180 (Sh18,000) but the price here is way below that. Of course the locals may not know it but I can spot the difference immediately.Will your presence appeal to African delegates at the conference or is it only the Japanese delegation that might appreciate your efforts?We have no doubts African delegates will find our cuisine appealing. First, don&rsquo;t forget that all previous Ticad conferences in Japan had attendees from all over Africa. These have enjoyed our culture for all those years. They have every right to enjoy similar treatment, this time, on African soil.From your brief observation, how does Nairobi rank in terms of hospitality?Kenya can compete on the international stage as far as hospitality is concerned. You have top-notch facilities that should help you bid for big conferences. The airport is large enough to handle thousands of visitors per day. This should be the conference capital of the continent.What is unique about Japanese hospitality?First, our cuisine is both local and international. Our ingredients come from all over the world. The sea is one of the main sources of our ingredients. On the other hand, we have no problem working with limited ingredients. The difference is how we combine them to create signature Japan dishes.In addition, making Japanese food is art in itself. It is not enough to create fabulous dishes. The way the food is arranged says a lot about the people behind the food. It dignifies the diners as well. We are known for our precise engineering in all things, including the way we dress our dishes.