&ldquo;Nairobi is a &lsquo;terrorfic&rsquo; city where buildings threaten us,&rdquo; said Yasir Brek, a director with Morphosis Limited, creating a word play between terror and terrific.According to Brek, Nairobi&rsquo;s origin in 1899 as a depot for the railway construction created a visible segregation between the races &mdash; a segregation that is still evident today. The very set up of our cities, he said, makes them less adaptable to socio-economic dynamics.He said the various master-plans for Nairobi have failed to fully address the anomaly despite the rapid urbanisation and infrastructure upgrade.&ldquo;When faced with insecurity, we resort to the Trump Solution &mdash; build walls. We live in residential houses with a wall while the estate itself is also walled. We have built a city that is hard and uncaring. We have no personal relationship with the city and the structures,&rdquo; said Brek.Too many checks&ldquo;There are too many security checks by intimidating guards. There are spikes where people are supposed to walk and sit. The same colonial systems that the British used are now being used by us. You cannot even take a picture of the city due to fear of intimidation,&rdquo; lamented Brek. Brek&rsquo;s approach is coming from a consciousness that became widespread post-September 1, 2001, most commonly referred to as 9/11.On this day in New York, terrorists associated with Osama Bin Laden&rsquo;s terror group, Al Qaeda, took control of several planes in American airspace, rammed them into the twin towers of the World Trade Centre, killing close to 3,000 people.Among the Kenyans in New York at that time and who witnessed the intensity of the carnage firsthand was Dr Martin Kimani, currently a security expert at Kenya&rsquo;s National Counter Terrorism Centre.Like millions of others worldwide, he was baffled by the fact that tall buildings had become deadly weapons of destruction at the hands of terrorists.Since then, terror groups around the world have targeted commercial buildings since these act as social and economic magnets attracting millions of people on a daily basis.Most of the 800 deaths and 6,000 injuries caused by terrorists in Kenya over the past few years, says Kimani, have occurred in buildings.Recent cases include the Westgate Mall attack and Garissa University massacre.When it all changed&ldquo;The 9/11 attacks presented a paradigm shift in the way buildings are designed and constructed. Since we cannot exactly predict when the next attack will happen, it is just practical to try and protect our structures against attacks. Terrorism is like a pandemic, a disease. We must build with an understanding of how terrorism works,&rdquo; said Kimani.According to Kimani, there should be engineers who study the effects of blasts to buildings. He said that it is much easier to build in security than to adjust the building later for security purposes. &ldquo;Security devices can be built to blend in with the rest of the structure,&rdquo; he said.But terrorism is just one challenge that the built-industry has to contend with. Resilience refers to the industry&rsquo;s ability to survive and thrive under myriad adverse circumstances including climate change, overpopulation, political upheavals, economic and social changes.The issue of designing resilient buildings came to the fore at the Architectural Association of Kenya&rsquo;s annual convention held last week in Kwale.Linda Odhiambo, an engineering student at the University of Nairobi, said cities in East Africa cannot escape these &ldquo;perfect storms&rdquo;, most of which are global in nature. &ldquo;What happens elsewhere affects life here,&rdquo; she said.&ldquo;Our urban centres are melting pots of culture populated by people from all cultural and social backgrounds. There is no specific architecture peculiar to a particular culture. Resilience means adapting to the ever-changing state of the world.&rdquo;Urban planners, whose business is to think long-term and create sustainable and resilient development concepts, weighed in too.One of these is Peter Kibinda who has overseen a number of development plans for the city, some of which were conceived over four decades ago.Resilient citiesBuilding resilient cities, said Kibinda, starts with infrastructure-led developments rather than the other way round as is currently the case.&ldquo;A planner is like a seer who looks beyond the obvious. For example, he looks beyond the location of a structure and &ldquo;sees&rdquo; the entire eco-system that will be disturbed by the structure, the knock-on effects of the construction. In fact, our planners have to consider climate change, something that was not much of an issue in the 1970s,&rdquo; he said.Kibinda said Nairobi looks more like a jail than a city. He said the high walls are more insecure than our old, African values where a person could see what was going on in the neighbour&rsquo;s compound.&ldquo;We hardly own our space, we have no urban values. We even hire guards to protect the tree so that it&rsquo;s not destroyed by street protesters,&rdquo; said Kibinda.But as the experts look for ways of building a resilient industry, the term is still foreign to many urban dwellers. According to Adhiambo, a recent survey shows many people in Nairobi have not heard of urban resilience, nor do they think the lack of it poses any real and present danger.&ldquo;Some don&rsquo;t even think terrorism is part of their daily problems, yet terrorism has made the government to block some roads, put ropes around some key buildings and installations to prevent people walking too close to buildings,&rdquo; she said.Interestingly, Nairobi was recently selected as one of 100 resilient cities in the world.According to Lands and Physical Planning cabinet secretary Professor Jacob Kaimenyi, the government can reduce or eliminate some fees levied on the sector but it is up to the experts in the built environment to design projects that outlive them.&ldquo;Communities place their faith in professionals like you. Take up the challenge to prove ourselves to them. Update your knowledge of the industry through study. Some of you stay for years without touching a book. It is good to buy land in Kitengela but take a few coins and buy books to develop yourself,&rdquo; he said.According to Kaimenyi, there can be no resilience in the sector if some of those charged with ensuring the industry&rsquo;s stability are guilty of contravening laid down procedures for dishonest gain.&ldquo;Some professionals give completion certificates when works are not over, giving approvals that should not be submitted, or a project manager who is never on site but appears only to check the boxes on a particular document,&rdquo; he said.&mdash;homeandaway@standardmedia.co.ke