Funyula MP Paul Otuoma is back in the Orange Democratic Movement and will resume his duties as the party&rsquo;s vice chairman, party leader Raila Odinga announced yesterday.Raila said Otuoma, who resigned from the party in a huff alongside the former Secretary General Ababu Namwamba two months ago, will resume his duties as the party prepares for the August 2017 General Election. The CORD principal made the announcement in the presence of the Funyula MP during the burial of former legendary Kenyan goalkeeper&nbsp; James Sianga at Siguyo in Ugenya, Siaya County yesterday.&ldquo;I want to welcome Otuoma back to the party&rsquo;s leadership. I knew he had just taken a short leave to rest after hard work. He is now back,&rdquo; Raila said amid applause from mourners who included several MPs.Vacant positionHe said Otuoma was still a strong party member and knew would return to take up his seat. This was the reason the position was still vacant, he explained.&ldquo;There was a gap in the party but we will give him back his seat. He is coming back to fill it because I have given it back to him. Otuoma had this position in the party and he will take it back,&rdquo; said Raila.&ldquo;We know where we have come from and we are working together for a better cause.&rdquo;Otuoma, who shared a platform with Raila for the first time since he resigned from his party leadership position, in July, said he never left ODM.He instead faulted unnamed people for badmouthing him, saying he was among the party&rsquo;s founders and could not abandon it.&ldquo;Some people are good at smelling things that are non-existent and peddling false rumours. I have always been in ODM,&rdquo; said Otuoma who addressed Raila as &ldquo;My party leader&rdquo;.His return to ODM deals a big blow to Namwamba, who two days ago joined the Labour Party of Kenya. When they resigned from their positions in ODM, the two leaders said they were quitting because they were frequently overlooked by the party leadership.&nbsp;But yesterday, Otuoma said party wrangles should never be handled in public. &ldquo;I have always supported and voted for Raila, not because I have been compromised, but because I admire his ideals as a&nbsp;&nbsp; leader who is committed to bringing change to Kenyans,&rdquo; he said.Free elections&nbsp;&ldquo;It is important not to blow up small differences. I resigned from my position because I was mad at my party leader but now that the issues have been taken care of, I am fine. We have struggled with Raila to make ODM better because we believe in a cause. I am in ODM to stay&rdquo;.The Funyula MP asked his counterparts in ODM to regroup and work tirelessly to ensure Raila secures the presidency next year.&ldquo;We have to stay put. Let us prepare well. I wish the party leader success in his quest for the presidency. We will be calling for free and fair elections,&rdquo; he said. Other leaders at the funeral included Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga, Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi, Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga, Deputy Party Organising Secretary Rose Buyu, Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga and Rangwe MP George Oner.&ldquo;We have come a long way. Do not remain behind when we will be eating the meat in government come 2017. Let us walk hand in hand,&rdquo; Wanga urged Otuoma.Governor Rasanga said the party would now redirect its efforts to bringing back Namwamba, the&nbsp; Budalangi MP.Once again, the leaders called for the implementation of the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation (TJRC) report to help resolve some of the historical injustices perpetrated against marginalised groups.