Perhaps taking a cue from Kenyan MPs who are known for demanding all manner of privileges, the Ugandan Parliament has sparked public outrage with its plan to spend UGSh50 million (KSh1.5 million) on funerals of lawmakers. Critics say the move exposes wastage of taxpayer money and the legislature&#39;s sense of entitlement in a poor nation.The allocation comes hot on the heels of a proposal to offer each of Uganda&#39;s 427 lawmakers UGSh150 million (Sh4.5 million) to buy tax-free vehicles, another plan that has drawn strong criticism.The funeral cash will give each lawmaker a state-of-the-art casket, preparation of the grave, police to provide security and food and drinks for mourners. Each funeral will probably last three days, including a period for lying in state.In a country where corruption is widespread, punishment for stealing public funds is rare and politicians are often viewed with cynicism, that strikes citizens as outrageous.Ugandans MPs are not the first ones to demand to be given a &quot;dignified send-off&quot;. In 2013, Kenyan MPs unsuccessfully demanded that they be accorded a state funeral upon death.A Ugandan lawmaker already makes about $5,900 (Sh597,380) a month; the average Ugandan earns around $670 (Sh67,812) a year.&quot;MPs have not told us how they are growing our economy, instead all we see is how they are sucking from it,&quot; Jackie Asiimwe, a women&#39;s rights activist, told Reuters. &quot;The amounts are obscene.&quot;But Chris Obore, the spokesman for parliament, said that public anger against the proposed funeral plans was misplaced, adding that the lawmakers were being &quot;targeted unfairly.&quot;&quot;It&#39;s popular to be seen to be concerned about alleged government wastage,&quot; he said.Under the proposal, five deaths will be budgeted for each financial year. If no lawmaker dies in a given financial year, money will be returned to the Treasury, Obore said. A procurement process for a funeral provider is under way.Previously, some Ugandan MPs have joined the public in criticising President Yoweri Museveni, whose private jet, long motorcades, outsized presidential villas, and large security detail were often depicted as symbols of government extravagance and waste. Now the criticism is being directed at lawmakers.Piglets in sacksLast week, in an apparent insult to the legislators, two members of a youth pressure group arrived at the entrance to parliament&#39;s premises with piglets concealed in sacks.The piglets, with protest notes carrying words like MPIGS glued on their bodies, were then let loose before they were picked up by police, who also arrested the youths.A similar protest against legislators, using pigs, was staged at the Kenyan parliament by activists in 2013.Kenyan legislators have severally earned the wrath of citizens for their cavalier attitude to public funds. At more than Sh1,000,000 a month, they are among the best paid parliamentarians in the world.In 2013, the MPs lost a push to have their basic salary raised from Sh532,500 to Sh851,000, but secured concessions allowing them to pocket more money through allowances.The basic salary was structured to keep rising each year by Sh44,375 peaking at Sh710,000 in the fifth year.Over the life of Parliament, this works out to Sh651,250 a month. MPs also get a payment of Sh5 million upfront as a &#39;car grant&#39;. This is in addition to an &#39;optional&#39; car loan of Sh7 million.Taken together, the changes raised the benefits paid out to MPs from about Sh900,000 a month to about Sh1.2 million monthly. The amount excludes the weekly mileage allowances, which can run into&nbsp; hundreds of thousands every month.