NAIROBI: In today&rsquo;s competitive business environment, you need employees who can figure out how to keep your organisation profitable.As a result, the search for business development managers has gained traction in recent years. A quick search on the Internet yields thousands of results for firms looking to recruit for the position. Business development managers are basically senior salespeople who create opportunities for an organisation&rsquo;s growth. They find new customers and persuade existing ones to buy extra services.So what does it take to do the job?First, you need excellent communication skills. You must also understand how your industry works, the opportunities that exist and how to overcome existing challenges.The job often includes tight deadlines, with experience in sales or marketing usually required. Most recruiters also want applicants to hold a degree or diploma in a business-related course. While Kenyan universities do not teach the course outright, it is often covered under the business administration and management umbrella.The position fits across several organisations, meaning opportunities to thrive are in plenty, though the performance indicators vary depending on the industry.For instance, in manufacturing, the position may require you to secure new production contracts, while in education, it may require you to forge closer links between colleges and employers to create more opportunities for internships.As a result, your duties will vary depending on the sector, but there will be a lot of research on organisations to find new business, meetings with customers to identify their needs, and quite a bit of math as you forecast sales opportunities. You will also need negotiating skills to reach suitable compromises with customers and build positive relationships.Business development managers also tend to attend plenty of events and conferences to gain insight on market trends and competitors, and spend a lot of time writing reports and making presentations to customers and senior management.If you work with a charity, you will be responsible for securing funding, as well as improving awareness of the charity and widening its influence.Convenient daysThe job largely requires one to work Monday through to Friday, as these are the most convenient days to schedule customer meetings. However, it comes with a lot of travel to various locations, which may sometimes take up weekends.The position is strong on soft skills, such as the ability to get along with people at all levels and influence them, and strong problem-solving and creative skills. Voluntary work can help you develop useful customer service and marketing skills.The job can lead to more senior positions, such as marketing director, or enable you to branch out into other areas of business by leveraging your skills in sales, marketing and project management.