In recent times, Nairobi has hosted conferences bringing together global leaders as interest in the continent grows. A number of these have seen business deals worth trillions of shillings signed. While seeking to understand the significance of the forums to our economy, I came across a recent one where environmental matters took centre stage.Two months ago, delegates from 174 countries gathered in Nairobi for the second session of the United Nations Environment Assembly where high-sounding pronouncements were made. &ldquo;Far reaching decisions&rdquo;, &ldquo;strategies&rdquo;, &ldquo;action plans&rdquo; and &ldquo;resolutions&rdquo; on issues such as marine litter, illegal trade in wildlife, air pollution, chemicals and waste, and sustainable consumption and production were made as part of the global action needed to implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Climate Agreement.&ldquo;What we have seen in the last five days is the same political will and passion for change that brought about the groundbreaking international agreements of 2015. With global consensus affirmed, we are taking steps to bring about a real transformation of our development models. The United Nations Environment Assembly is providing leadership and guidance the world needs to take these unprecedented steps,&rdquo; said outgoing UNEP executive director Achim Steiner. But as the world leaders troop to city after city, the truth on the ground is worrying.World Health Organisation estimates that 12.6 million deaths are attributable to environmental factors every year. Again, resolutions related to human health and the environment were passed.It is also estimated that there are 5.2 trillion pieces of plastic floating in our oceans, harming both the marine environment and biodiversity. Our own coastline is a &ldquo;generous&rdquo; contributor to this unsightly pile.Member states &ldquo;resolved&rdquo; to encourage product manufacturers and others to consider the lifecycle and environmental impacts of products containing micro beads and &ldquo;compostable&rdquo; polymers, including possible downstream impacts. But who is listening?There were also resolutions to fight the illegal trade in wildlife, another key factor in combating environmental degradation. However, recent years have seen a spike in poaching activities on the continent.The many forums where environmental matters are discussed seem to be no more than swamps where good intentions are sunk without a trace.