NAKURU: A sombre mood has engulfed the Kabarak community after Moi Primary School head teacher Joseph Odhiambo died in a road accident.Odhiambo&rsquo;s vehicle collided head on with a Toyota Fielder on Saturday evening along the Nakuru-Kabarak road, just a few metres from the school. Odhiambo died while undergoing treatment at a hospital in Nakuru on the same day. Rongai police boss Joseph Mwamburi said Odhiambo&rsquo;s widow and a house help, who were travelling with him, are still admitted.&ldquo;The head teacher sustained serious injuries. He was taken to hospital but died while undergoing treatment,&rdquo; said Mwamburi.Mwamburi&nbsp;said the Toyota Fielder hit Odhiambo&rsquo;s car while attempting to overtake another vehicle.&ldquo;The driver of the Fielder was overtaking a vehicle heading to Nakuru when he collided head on with the head teacher&rsquo;s vehicle,&rdquo; he said.Odhiambo&rsquo;s colleagues, students and residents of Kabarak community comprising Moi Primary School, Moi High School and Kabarak University described him as an excellent administrator who has mentored many students in a career spanning decades.Kabarak University Deputy Vice Chancellor Henry Kiplagat, who is also the chairman board of management of the primary school, said he was still shocked by the news of Odhiambo&rsquo;s death.&ldquo;His death has shocked the entire Kabarak fraternity. No words can describe this loss, it is terrible. Odhiambo raised Kabarak Primary to be a school of excellence,&rdquo; said Dr Kiplagat.He added: &ldquo;He steered the primary section to where it is today -- a bastion of excellence.&rdquo;The school has been producing top candidates in the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) over the years, making the institution the envy of many.Parents have been flocking the school every November seeking admission for their children.&ldquo;He was a dedicated administrator, a disciplinarian and a team player who rallied his teachers to produce great results,&rdquo; said Kiplagat.&ldquo;Odhiambo leaves behind unrivaled mark in the education sector for his dedication and vision to see his pupils excel in their academics.&rdquo;&ldquo;It has been agonising for us. However, one thing I can point out about Odhiambo is his zeal for excellence. He never compromised and he never settled for anything other than the best,&rdquo; said Kiplagat.&ldquo;The Kabarak community condoles with the family, pupils, parents and the former President Daniel arap Moi who had forged a close working relationship with Odhiambo.&ldquo;We also send our condolences to the founder of Kabarak schools, His Excellency Daniel arap Moi. He has worked with Odhiambo over the years and his death is a tragic loss,&rdquo; said Kiplagat.Before joining Kabarak Primary in 2001, Odhiambo headed Tandui Primary in Moi&rsquo;s birth place. In 2006, Odhiambo retired but Moi asked him to come back in 2011.Rongai MP Raymond Moi, who is also a board member at the school, described Odhiambo as a diligent person who improved the school&rsquo;s national ranking.Raymond said Odhiambo worked round the clock to ensure the school improved its mean score. &ldquo;He set his targets high and always achieved them. It is a great loss. I related with him both in his official capacity and as a friend. No words can describe the loss,&rdquo; the MP said when he visited the deceased&rsquo;s family yesterday.Luka Kipyegen who serves as the school&rsquo;s board member described Odhiambo as an excellent administrator who was also a father figure to his pupils.&ldquo;I mourn this great man, an administrator of excellence and a man of God. He was a father figure and so many people have gone through his hands and he impacted them positively,&rdquo; he said.Kipyegen said Odhiambo stands tall as an education icon who will be greatly missed, not only by the Kabarak community, but also by the entire country at large.Board member&ldquo;I have served in this school as a board member and I am yet to come across a man so forthright as Odhiambo. May God give sufficient grace to his family, relatives and friends so they can bear the loss,&rdquo; said Kipyegen.The school&rsquo;s deputy head teacher Nelson Kiptoo said Odhiambo always ensured teachers completed the syllabus on time. This, he said, gave pupils ample time to revise, which translated in good results in national examinations.Mr Kiptoo described Odhiambo as a humble man, a mentor and a motivator. &ldquo;Here was a man who was very humble. He would correct us in a polite and encouraging way,&rdquo; he said.In last year&rsquo;s KCPE examinations, the school registered a mean score of 385.32. The highest candidate scored 435 marks out of a possible 500 marks.Odhiambo then attributed the good results to hard work, discipline and dedicated teachers who always sacrificed their time to help weaker students improve.&ldquo;This is the fruits of hard work. My pupils worked extra hard and I also appreciate the teaching staff for their tireless efforts and sacrifice,&rdquo; he said after the release of results.