We all desire to have serene clutter free living spaces. I have learned that the best way to achieve this is to prevent the rooms from getting messy in the first place.If your room looks like a hurricane passed through it, then it is time to invest in a storage organiser that provides a designated space for your items. A little investment in an appropriate organiser goes a long way in helping to keep things where they should be and saving you a lot of retrival times searching and looking for lost items. A neat and serene room will make you feel better and helps clarify your thoughts.From jewellery to cosmetics to toys and clothes, there are organising equipment available at the retail supermarkets, to gift shops and household item stores from as little a Sh500 that will give everything you have a &#39;home&#39;.Of course it takes time and effort to keep your house orderly, do not expect it to happen instantly. If you are lucky to get a whole day of clearing and sorting your &#39;stuff&#39; then by all means go ahead and do it because it will enable you to get a lot done at once, though I must warn you that boredom could check in and paralyse your efforts.Another strategy for clearing that clutter is designating 15 minutes daily to sort out a section of your office or a room in your house. Helps you get a sense of achievement without boring you to tears with prolonged clearing up.This 15 minute uncluttering rule also helps you maintain a sense of orderliness. But do not confuse your 15 minute uncluttering rule with actual cleaning. Just because you have cleaned up your floor does not mean that your room is organised.The 15 minute uncluttering rule means you organise a drawer or a closet or organise the shoes or your car boot and this assumes that you have already cleaned out whatever &#39;stuff&#39; you are putting order to.To help keep your homes orderly will require all household members to work with you. Demonstrate to other family members like children and domestic workers how you want the area kept.I recently learned a new trick from one wise sister of mine who requests her children to take a photograph with their phones of how the room should look when tidied up and to refer to that picture every time they tidy it up to ensure they comply with the rules.To make your &#39;uncluttering&#39; life simpler and easier. Get rid of all that stuff that you do not use. Give it away, sell it or trash it and keep only that which is functional and that which you love.