Nairobi, Kenya: A woman claims unknown people broke into her house and stole Sh4.8 million and a gun in an incident in Westlands area, Nairobi.She told police unknown people broke into her house along Rhapta Road on Sunday evening and escaped with the money in Kenyan and US currencies. The woman&#39;s husband is a licensed gun holder. She said the thieves also escaped with a shotgun that was in the house. Her husband was away in Kitengela at the time of the incident. The shotgun is lethal if and when used.She told police she had gone for shopping on Sunday evening but on coming back, she found her house broken into and the Sh4.2 million in Kenyan shillings and US$6,000 missing.Her husband arrived at the house when she called him and found a safe that had the weapon and cash had been vandalized.Kilimani police boss Peter Katam said they had launched investigations into the incident.&quot;This is a house breaking incident and the complainants say they lost money and a gun. It is serious and we are investigating,&quot; he said.The couple with their son who was with the mother when she reported the matter were questioned yesterday as part of the investigations into the incident.Katam advised residents to keep their money in banks.Meanwhile, a bodaboda rider was shot dead and robbed of his motorbike in an attack in Githurai 44 area, Nairobi.Police say they suspect the man resisted the robbery prompting the shooting that happened as he delivered a gunman who had hired him Sunday night. The body of the man was found on the roadside after the shooting had happened and the motorbike stolen. Efforts to trace the gunman are ongoing, police said adding the motorbike had not been recovered.In Lakisama area, a man was lynched in a botched robbery incident. Police say the man had tried to rob another one prompting an alarm which led to his killing. The bodies were moved to the mortuary.And a nine month old baby was killed in a fire incident in Huruma area, Nairobi. The fire started from one of the houses in the area before spreading to where the baby was sleeping.In Kibera slums, several people were left homeless in a similar incident. Police say they are yet to know the cause. Another incident was reported in Lunga Lunga slums. Several residents lost their property. The incidents are being investigated.