A number of local MPs have called for peace following the impeachment of Governor Nderitu Gachagua ahead of a Senate decision on the matter.Senator Mutahi Kagwe, Woman Representative Priscillah Nyokabi and Mukurweini MP Kabando wa Kabando urged warring sides to stick to the relevant issues instead of engaging in personalised attacks. Mr Kagwe, who declined to comment on the impeachment, told residents to allow the law to take its course.&quot;Allow me not to speak on this matter as it is likely to be tabled in the Senate where I sit. It may not be wise for me to talk about it now as my comments may be misinterpreted,&quot; he said.Mr Kabando and Ms Nyokabi called on all leaders to avoid inciting the public. The MP said a meeting of MPs, MCAs, religious leaders and political aspirants to discuss the matter would be held today.&quot;Parties in the dispute must remember we have been employed by the public. So let us discuss the issues raised without fear or bias during the Monday meeting while we await the Senate&#39;s decision,&quot; Kabando said.However, he poked holes in the Senate&#39;s ability to handle the impeachment impartially.EFFECTIVE ARBITER&quot;Even as we respect the decision of the county assembly, the Senate has always presented itself as being incapable of being an impartial and effective arbiter,&quot; said Kabando.&quot;We must redeem the image of our county now. We have all been quietly lobbying for a quick solution to the standoff but parties to the disagreement seemed obstinate. Our county has been subjected to so much shame in the last few weeks and this must end.&quot;Kabando said leaders were planning to make major resolutions during today&#39;s meeting.&quot;We are asking those embroiled in the dispute to line themselves up with the resolutions or be swept away by a wave of reason and rationality,&quot; he added.Nyokabi noted the Auditor General had raised serious questions in his 2013-2014 audit report of county spending that ought to have been responded to.&quot;I have read the report and it is true that the issues were serious. Because of the auditor&#39;s queries and what MCAs have done, we will let the matter proceed to the Senate,&quot; Nyokabi said.&quot;It is evident that funds are not being put to the right use. That is why the region was unfavourably ranked by the Commission on Revenue Allocation. We need more funds but this does not mean we should misuse public funds,&quot; she said.On Friday, 32 of the 46 MCAs supported the motion to remove the governor from office. The motion was moved by Kiganjo MCA Baragu Mutahi, who was seconded by Karatina&#39;s Joel Gichuru.Attempts to reconcile the governor and the MCAs failed.