NAIROBI, KENYA: Sophos has been recorgnised in Gartners&rsquo;s three magic quadrant for endpoint and network security products.The quadrant is based on an assessment of a company&rsquo;s ability to execute and completeness of vision. &ldquo;Network security is a critical pillar in protecting against today&rsquo;s sophisticated and persistent threats &ndash; and is one of the fastest growing market segments in IT security. Our continued recognition as a Leader in this Magic Quadrant validates our position at the forefront of this important and growing market,&rdquo; commented Bryan Barney, senior vice president and general manager, Network Security Group at Sophos. &ldquo;As a recognized leader in both endpoint and network security, and with over 100,000 customers in each segment, we continue to deliver on our vision for a synchronized security platform that directly shares threat intelligence and the health status of all security products. This strategy achieves more advanced levels of protection for enterprises of all sizes &ndash; while at the same time being easier to manage.&rdquo;&ldquo;The Leaders quadrant contains vendors at the forefront of making and selling UTM products that are built for midsize-business requirements. The requirements necessary for leadership include a wide range of models to cover midsize-business use cases, support for multiple features, and a management and reporting capability that&#39;s designed for ease of use. Vendors in this quadrant lead the market in offering new safeguarding features, and in enabling customers to deploy them inexpensively without significantly affecting the end-user experience or increasing staffing burdens. These vendors also have a good track record of avoiding vulnerabilities in their security products. Common characteristics include reliability, consistent throughput, and products that are intuitive to manage and administer,&rdquo; according to Gartner.In Sophos&rsquo; fiscal year ending March 31, 2016 reported billings growth was 27.5 percent in Network security business which is well above the reported market growth of 7 percent. For the same period, the UTM and next-generation firewall (NGFW) business represented approximately half of Sophos billings worldwide.