In Kenya, fish has for many years been a preserve for communities living along lake shores. But the delicacy is now being embraced by other communities across the country, thanks to fish farming in ponds, which has become a popular venture.Even with the increased fish consumption, many people know of only a few ways of preparing and preserving fish. These include sun drying and smoking. They can also be deep fried and boiled before being served with ugali or rice. But did you know there are ways of turning fish into tasty snacks? According to a research recently conducted by Japanese Nagasaki University in collaboration with Maseno University, there are new interesting ways of fish paste processing for micro-scale production.Fish paste is fish chemically broken down by a fermentation process until it reaches the consistency of a soft creamy pur&eacute;e or paste.The research was through a programme called Lake Victoria Comprehensive Ecosystem and Aquatic Environment (Lavicord) that was launched in 2014 and ended recently.POST HARVESTING TECHNOLOGIESLavicord Research Co-ordinator (Fisheries) Keiko Kito of Nagasaki University says the programme introduces new post-harvesting technologies of preparing fish as a snack and utilises nile perch and tilapia more than any other species.&ldquo;The idea is to process fish so that it can last longer, especially for those in villages. It&rsquo;s processed when fresh and can be consumed later,&rdquo; she says.&ldquo;We have modified the Japan recipe to the Kenyan preferences. We did interviews through questionnaires so that we know what many people liked. The research started in June 2014 and established all the recipes by 2015.&rdquo;According to Lavicord, fish paste preparation begins with filleting, where the fish skin is removed, and the flesh is separated from the bones.The flesh is then minced to crush the muscle structure and increase surface area to volume ratio for mixing the ingredients, especially salt.Salt is important as a preservative, for dissolving slat soluble proteins to form high elasticity and for taste improvement. The high elasticity makes it easy to chew the fish.The main fish products Lavicord focuses on in the post-harvest technology are fish cake, samaki sticks and samaki toast.About 500g of fish fillet requires three table spoonful of egg whites, two-and-a-half tea spoonful of water, four table spoonful of corn flour, one-and-a-half spoonful sugar and a table spoonful of salt.The fish fillet is then put in a barrel of the mincer and is processed until a coarse paste is formed. After that, part of it is transferred into a food processor and run for 30 seconds twice, with manual stirring after each run.Then add salt and process it twice again in the processor for 30 seconds for each run. Add sugar, corn flour, egg white, water altogether in the food processor and run for 30 seconds twice. After that, mix in any additional spices such as chopped onions, ginger and tomato paste.FISH CAKELavicord Research Assistant Charles Ochola says the paste is ready to be prepared as fish cake, samaki sticks and toasts.For the fish cake, two table spoonful of the paste is rolled into a ball then deep fired at about 170 degrees Celsius or cooked for eight minutes until it turns golden. The balls are then transferred to a baking tray to cool slightly on the mesh or kitchen paper for draining excessive oil. They can also be sealed for a longer shelf life.Samaki toast is prepared the same way as fish cake, but a loaf of bread is used for value addition. After adding salt, sugar, egg white, corn flour and water, remove the bread crusts and use a chapati roller to roll the slices until they become thin.A table spoonful of the fish mixture is then smeared on the bread slice just the way margarine is applied.After the fish is well spread, roll the bread slices into a tube shape and bind the edges well using additional fish mixture. Deep fry them for five minutes and keep turning, the way it is done with mandazis.This is the best snack for breakfast and is especially enjoyed by children. For samaki sticks preparation, double cream is added as one of the ingredients.Apart from being used as snacks, fish paste can also be used as a side dish and to make soup.&ldquo;The processing is done here and for sensory evaluation we involved people from Maseno University. We then decided to try it with people from outside. Last month, we took the products to people in Dunga who are fish experts. They now want to be taught to make the product, unfortunately the process is coming to an end,&rdquo; Ochola says. He wishes the contract is renewed so they can train the locals.Equipment used to prepare the fish products are readily available for small-scale production such as in hotels and for domestic consumption. With a food processor, mincer, deep fryer and vacuum sealer for those who intend to sell, one is good to go.