&nbsp;SIAYA: Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party leader Raila Odinga&rsquo;s political ally Jakoyo Midiwo was Monday attacked as political violence reared its ugly head in Siaya County. &nbsp;Mr Midiwo (Gem MP) escaped narrowly when youths armed with crude weapons attacked his convoy, injuring one of his aides and smashing his car&rsquo;s windscreen.Midiwo and Siaya gubernatorial aspirants William Oduol and Nicholas Gumbo, who is also Rarieda MP, were heading to Usinga ward to address residents over the standoff between Dominion Farms, an American firm involved in large-scale farming at the Yala Swamp, and the locals when the goons struck.Midiwo had accused the county government of failing to account for Sh70 million that was paid by Godavari, investors from India.The company has entered into a lease agreement with the&nbsp; county government and is set to use the swamp for horticultural farming.The MP has opposed Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga&#39;s re-election, claiming he has integrity issues and should not be cleared by ODM.Midiwo&nbsp;and his colleagues had just left St Peters Anglican Church after a fundraiser and started his tour of Alego Usonga in Nyadorera.But before they could address the already gathered crowd in the market, young men emerged out of the blue wielding rungus, machetes and big stones.&quot;We do not want you here! You cannot keep on disturbing the governor over issues that you do not understand. Where have you been since 2008 when controversy first erupted over Yala Swamp? Kindly leave us alone,&quot; shouted one of the youths who appeared to be their leader.He added: &quot;Go and help Opposition leader Raila Odinga in Nairobi and let go of county politics! Do not come to our sub-county to tell us what is right or wrong. Keep off our governor.&quot;The assailants then started hurling stones at Midiwo and running towards him, forcing the MP and his colleagues to drive off in high speed towards Mr Oduol&#39;s home.The stones hit Midiwo&#39;s fleeing car, breaking windows. One of Midiwo&#39;s aides who sat in the front with the driver was injured on the head.Joseph Onyango, who was part of the crowd baying for&nbsp; Midiwo&#39;s blood, accused Midiwo of fighting the governor. Another youth, Steve Okoth, dared Midiwo to come out of his vehicle and address the crowd &quot;if he was man enough&quot;.An agitated Midiwo later told journalists: &quot;How dare he send his hired goons to attack me and my convoy? I will come back on Friday to talk to the people about the same issue. Dominion and the Godovari investors must go and the county government must account for the Sh70 million paid by the Godavari investors. I am waiting for the governor in Gem as well.&quot;He said he would not report the attack to police as this would be cowardly, but would wait for the governor when he visits&nbsp; Gem.But in a quick rejoinder, Rasanga denied Midiwo&#39;s allegation that he was behind the attack. &quot;I was not even aware that he was in Alego. I condemn in the strongest terms possible the attack on Midiwo&#39;s convoy. Those youths should be brought to book,&quot; Rasanga said through his&nbsp; spokesman Bonny Odinga.He described the incident as unfortunate. &quot;Everyone has freedom of&nbsp; movement and speech. These people should have allowed Midiwo and his team to address them,&quot; said the governor who has exchanged bitter words with Midiwo in the past week over the Dominion Farms and allegations of&nbsp; corruption.Midiwo last Friday accused Rasanga of turning a blind eye&nbsp; to the controversy between Dominion Farms and local communities over Yala Swamp.He demanded that the contract between the community and Dominion Farms be renegotiated.&quot;The Dominion people cannot talk to themselves but to the county governments of Siaya and Busia. I did talk to Rasanga when we gave him the governor seat on the issue of Dominion and advised him to talk to the owner of Dominion Farms to give residents a better deal,&quot; Midiwo said.