Amid great pomp and colour, President Uhuru Kenyatta unveiled his 2017 re-election vehicle with a bold notice on older generation leaders to quit.In what was presumed to be directed to CORD leader Raila Odinga, Uhuru told thousands of party supporters that time for generational change has come. He described the launch of Jubilee Party as &ldquo;generational statement of change&rdquo; beyond even himself and his deputy William Ruto.The President said Jubilee is crafted from mistakes of past political formations which have been &ldquo;nothing more than special purpose vehicles to elect selfish leaders, or enclaves designed to protect tribal interests.&rdquo;&ldquo;Not every leader can read the signs of the times. Many still hope to find opportunity in division. Time and again, they have divided Kenyans against each other. Time and again, they have chosen violent, destructive and undemocratic politics.&rdquo;&ldquo;And each and every time, ordinary Kenyans have paid a high price for the irresponsibility of their leaders. That is why I say now, to those who still sell the politics of division and negativity: you had your chance. You wasted it, again and again -- always opting to divide Kenyans, rather than unite them.Your time is done,&rdquo; he told supporters at the Jubilee Party launch at Kasarani, Nairobi, yesterday. He said his generation was determined to lead Kenyans on a path of unity to reach the heights they always dream of. Uhuru tied Kenya&rsquo;s destiny with his. He was born at the dawn of Kenya&rsquo;s independence in 1961. He claimed Kenya&rsquo;s joys have been his joys and Kenya&rsquo;s pain his pain.&nbsp;He regretted Kenya&rsquo;s lost opportunities in times of turbulence like the confusion of multiparty dawn, post Narc era of divisions and post-election period of 2008.&ldquo;We recall that it was when we were united as a people that we managed to grow and diversify our economy, to work on a dream to stand tall among the nations,&rdquo; he recalled.Division and disunity bred a politics that was undemocratic and unresponsive to the needs of the people, he said. He said Kenyans cannot continue making &ldquo;fatal choice&rdquo; after another hence Jubilee.&ldquo;William and I chose to unite as friends, and as Kenyans. We urged conflicting communities to come together in search of reconciliation, knowing that this would be the path of unity that this country deserves and needs.We decided to offer leadership to serve the Wanjikus across Kenya who have always sought freedom and progress, in spite of their sometimes disappointing leaders,&rdquo; he said.He said the new Jubilee Party had come to assert its place as the one that will reconcile Kenyans. He said in launching the party, this leadership was renewing the ties that bind Kenyans.&ldquo;We rise from the ashes of conflict to express the beauty of reconciliation and collective purpose,&rdquo; he said.He promised to steer the party away from personality cults, dictatorship and unfair democratic practices. He announced that he would not endorse anyone for leadership and challenged aspirants to make their case to party members.&ldquo;Jubilee will not make the mistakes of the parties that came before us. Every shade of opinion will have its say in this party. Every member will get a fair hearing,&rdquo; he said.He said under Jubilee, Kenya will pursue Pan African policies, play a greater role in conflict resolution in the region, open market access for Kenyan companies and promote young entrepreneurs.&ldquo;I am blessed to have a compatriot who shares my vision and is my fellow traveller. I refer, of course, to my friend, William Ruto, who is with us today,&rdquo; he said.He told CORD: &ldquo;I encourage them to get their act together ndio tukutane kwa uwanja kwa njia ya amani. (so that we can compete in a peaceful manner.&rdquo;He adde: &ldquo;I assure them as president that I will ensure they are given democratic opportunity to express themselves without fear or favor.&rdquo;The President extolled the gains of his administration in managing the constitutional transition, undertaking major infrastructural projects and raising Kenya&rsquo;s profile internationally.He nevertheless said he is not ready to bask in the glory of the achievements and would rather push for better roads, more jobs, more food, better schools, better hospitals, and better lives.&ldquo;We are clear as a party why we want to continue leading this nation into the future because we have a solid track record and a clear road map of what Kenyans should expect from a Jubilee administration going forward,&rdquo; he said. Signalling the beginning of 2017 race, Uhuru laid his cards open and pleaded:&ldquo;We are here today as the Jubilee Party to tell you why you should wake up on August 8th 2017 to cast your votes for us -- to give our party time to deliver on our vision of equality, justice, and prosperity for all.&rdquo;