Unless you are using the position of the sun to tell the time, you are likely to have a wall clock, desk clock or a grandfather clock which not only tells the time, but should fit in with your room&rsquo;s d&eacute;cor. Even with the new digital age, clocks seem to have that extra magical effect that no digital clock or mobile phone device can emulate.Large clocks have great impact as they fill the wall with their graphics. The bigger the clock, the better. Find one that you love to look at so that even if it stops working, it can still provide visual pleasure and as Marie Von Ebner-Escehnbach says about time pieces: &ldquo;Even a stopped clock is right twice a day.&rdquo; Kitchen clocks can be a fun way to express your personality and bring in some whimsical feature into your kitchen.Use a colourful clock perhaps with an arrangement of fruits in it to inspire your cooking area and time your cooking. Unlike paintings and pictures which should be hang at eye level, clocks can be hang above eye level and closer to ceiling for easy viewing from any part of the room. Make sure the clock size is proportional to the wall and that it fits in with the room style, whether you have a tradition country style, eclectic or modern-style room.Clocks with Roman numerals are my favourite. I like to steal glances as their well calligraphed numbers provide a classic eye-catching piece of art. Whether in rustic tones or vintage or modern chrome finish, the Roman numerals will provide charm to any room. Though grandfather clocks with pendulums have often been depicted negatively in horror movies, these floor-standing clocks are dramatic and stately at the same time and will immediately upgrade the quality of your living space.You may even wonder how you ever lived without one. Ensure that the grand clock fits in with your d&eacute;cor ambience so that it does not stand out like a sore thumb.Grandfather clocks may be expensive to buy initially but they will give you years of service and can be passed on to the next generation.