NAIROBI: Jubilee leaders say President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto will easily win in 2017 now that the ICC cases are behind them.&quot;They no longer have the ICC baggage and that is why they will easily floor their rivals in next year&#39;s General Election,&quot; National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale told a rally at Mlango Kubwa in Mathare Constituency yesterday. They told CORD to also prepare for defeat in the race for Nairobi governor&#39;s seat, currently held by Dr Evans Kidero.Duale said Uhuru and Ruto won the last elections even though the crimes against humanity cases affected their campaigns and told their rivals to get ready for another defeat.The leaders, who included Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko, Woman Representative Racheal Shebesh, Nominated MP Johnson Sakaja, Nominated Senator Beatrice Elachi, MPs Nickson Korir (Langata), Steven Kariuki (Mathare), Sonia Birdi (Nominated) and Kajiado North&#39;s MP Joseph Manje, former Starehe MP Margret Wanjiru, said Jubilee has no apologies after Uhuru mocked CORD leader Raila Odinga during veteran politician William ole Ntimama&#39;s burial.&quot;The President said he will wait for a very long time to get power and we have no apologies to make,&quot; said Duale.He added: &quot;You (Raila) contested in 1997 and you were defeated. You again contested in 2007 and 2013 and failed. You will fail again 2017 and continue salivating for power.&quot;Sakaja said CORD had shown signs of splitting. &quot;They practice politics of hatred and chaos while Jubilee believes in peace and unity of the country. CORD is rocked with internal wrangles and no longer work together. When ODM celebrated its 10th anniversary, Kalonzo and Wetang&#39;ula skipped the event,&quot; he said.Sonko, Wanjiru and Sakaja accused Kidero&#39;s administration of runaway corruption.The three leaders, who have declared their interest to unseat Kidero on Jubilee ticket, accused the county boss of allegedly perpetuating land grabbing and corruption at City Hall.They promised to throw their weight behind whoever will win the Jubilee Party nomination for the seat.Sonko asked his opponents in the ruling coalition that they must work together to defeat CORD&#39;s Kidero.He said he is ready to support any of the Jubilee candidates should he be defeated in the party primaries.&quot;Many of us are contesting for Nairobi governor and we have to strategize to defeat Kidero. I, Wanjiru, Wamalwa and Sakaja should work together,&quot; he said.&quot;Should I be defeated, I will support the winner. I would also like to ask my colleagues to support me should I defeat them.&quot;He said the Government has many job opportunities thus, those who lose in nominations have no reason to quit the party.&quot;There are a lot of jobs in Government and all of us will get something to do. We don&#39;t want internal fights that can give our opponents a chance to beat us,&quot; he added.Ms Elachi claimed that Kidero ascended to power by rigging out Waititu and said that he should get ready to go home.She took a swipe at Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho who she accused of interfering with Nairobi politics. &quot;ODM will not retain the seat even if they bring Joho to campaign in the city,&quot; she said.&quot;We will not allow Joho to interfere with Nairobi politics. We will also unseat him in Mombasa because he does not deserve to run the county. He has continued to attack our president and deputy and we will deal with him,&quot; Elachi added.