Growing up in the village taught me the hardship mothers go through to raise children. I also learnt that children need parental care, especially motherly love.This realisation has made me to strive to ensure children enjoy parental care. I cannot stand seeing children being mistreated or lacking care from their parents. I, therefore, decided to adopt three children who lacked parental care. Charles and James Abwire lost their parents at a tender age and none of their relatives was willing to accommodate them.During the funeral of their father, the ten-year-old and eight-year-old boys sat deep in thoughts as they followed the proceedings. They stared at a bleak future.To make matters worse, the boys were infested with jiggers, which made people shun them. This further put their education at stake.Their story made me cry and thought to myself. I knew that every child needs parental care, especially motherly love, but Charles and James needed that love even more.I was moved by their predicament and since I have loved children since my childhood, I decided to adopt them and stay with them in my house.The first thing I did for them was to take them to hospital to be treated because jiggers had severely affected their legs and hands.I took them to Yatta Development and Jigger Eradication Centre in Mumias, and then to the Aga Khan Hospital in Kisumu for further treatment.The boys are now in good health and I am happy that they can now concentrate on their studies. I am also grateful to my husband for accepting my request to adopt the children.For the better part of the 47 years I have lived, my desire has been to ensure no child is neglected in the society. Together with my friends, we spend a lot of time visiting children&rsquo;s homes and orphanages to donate food, offer motherly love to the children and also guide and counsel them.I developed love for children when I was still a young girl. I would visit my elder brothers and sisters to babysit their children during holidays.Being born the eleventh child in a family of 14 also gave me an opportunity to love my younger siblings. I dream of becoming a teacher as it would give me the opportunity to interact with children.My dream came true in 1991 when I started teaching at Bumula Primary School in Bungoma County. And for the 25 years I have been a teacher, I have confined myself to the classroom because I want to be with the children on a daily basis.I desire to see children from humble backgrounds get education just like any other Kenyan child so that they can change their life stories.Apart from Charles and James, I have also adopted another child, Yvonne, who is now in Form Three at Starehe Girls High School. Yvonne used to suffer in the hands of her stepmother and I could not stand seeing her future being shattered.My dream is to establish a children&rsquo;s home in my rural home. As a family, we are in the process of acquiring land where we will put up the children&rsquo;s home.We are targeting bright but needy children to ensure they access quality education. With a degree in childhood development and 25 years experience as a teacher, I think I am well-equipped to take care of such children.Some people think I am doing all this to help my politician-husband (Mumias East MP, Benjamin Washiali) get political mileage. That is not true. I do it out of my love for children. I will continue offering motherly love to deserving children, whether my husband is in politics or not.