About a month ago, Saul Obwanda was a frail, demoralised and hopeless young man.The orphan had just lost a chance to study civil and mechanical engineering at Kenyatta University due to lack of fees and had resorted to working in his aunt&#39;s posho mill located in Railways Estate in Kisumu, for no pay. But a new chapter was opened in the life of the 24-year-old last week, thanks to a story about his tribulations published by The Standard on July 22. Following the story, Savannah Cement offered him a scholarship for his entire five years of study.According to the company&#39;s managers, the scholarship will cover tuition fees, accommodation, learning facilities and upkeep. The company has also provided a medical cover within the company&#39;s medical scheme and an internship opportunity throughout the study period.Savannah Cement Managing Director Ronald Ndegwa said the scholarship was awarded as part of the company&#39;s social investment policy.&quot;I am also glad that several members of management and staff have agreed to join me in mentoring Obwanda throughout his academic programme,&quot; said Mr Ndegwa.Obwanda did his Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) exams in 2012 and scored a straight A (82 out of a possible 84 points). He was admitted to Kenyatta University where he was expected to report in 2013.But he was unable to raise the required fees by the registration date and opted to defer his studies for a year, but was still unable to raise the money.A third deferral attempt flopped after the university informed him that only two deferrals were allowed.But on Monday last week, the former Nairobi School student was among 10,000 freshers who thronged Kenyatta University to begin their studies in various courses.&quot;I still do not believe this is me going through the admission process. I think God&#39;s miracles work in ways I cannot comprehend. I have witnessed miracles in the last one month,&quot; said Obwanda.MET FRIENDS&quot;I have stayed out for four years and most of the people I will be sharing classes with are fresh out of high school. But that will not discourage me. I have already met friends I sat my KCSE with and most of them are in third year now. I will rely on them to help me keep up the pace,&quot; said Obwanda.He said he was focused on achieving his academic and career dreams.The scholarship cheque of Sh658,500 made out to Kenyatta University was presented by Ndegwa at the company&#39;s head office in Athi River last Thursday.The Nyanza Evangelical Team, Dongruok Dala, and Global Peace Foundation were some of the first organisations that tried to help Obwanda raise funds for his education. And with help from Kenyans in the diaspora and locally, representatives from the organisations teamed up to form a committee to raise the money.The funds raised went into relocating Obwanda from Kisumu to Nairobi where he persuaded the&nbsp;university to give him another chance.&quot;When we heard about this case, we moved quickly to look for funds and the three organisations managed to trace the boy and bring him to Nairobi where we secured his re-admission and provided the money he needed. We are glad that the Kenyatta University Foundation and Savanna Cement came in. We will continue giving the necessary support,&quot; said Global Peace Foundation Executive Director Daniel Juma.&quot;I have hosted him (Obwanda) for the last one month and I can attest to the fact that he is ready to work hard and redeem his lost glory. He can make it,&quot; said Duncan Ouma, a lecturer at the university&#39;s department of economics who is also a member of the Nyanza Evangelical Team.According to Rose Otieno, the director of the KU Foundation, at least 3,000 students who report to Kenyatta University are vulnerable due to challenges such as lack of fees, lack of social support and discrimination.&quot;We have been able to support about 100 vulnerable students annually. This is one of the cases we shared with Savanna Cement and we are glad they agreed to take it up,&quot; said Dr Otieno.Savannah Cement has assured that it will continue to support needy students.