&nbsp;The third anniversary of the Westgate terror attack was marked without major activities Wednesday. It was business as usual at the mall. Traders said their businesses are picking up due to improved security.&quot;Security has improved and we are getting more customers as compared to last year. But this issue is not confined to Kenya, you can see it in other parts of the world,&quot; said a trader on the second floor, the epicentre of the attack on September 21, 2013.At the mall, security has been heightened with more police deployments. Journalists visited the mall to check if there were any activities to mark the day, but there was none. The management allowed the scribes into the mall to asses the progress.Traders spoke freely calling for continued vigilance to tame any such planned attack.Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho led in commemorating the day, saying Kenya stands stronger after the attack.&quot;We stood strong then and we stand even stronger now. Our prayers are forever with the ones we lost and their loved ones,&quot; he said in a tweet.Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet said they have foiled many other planned terror attacks through co-operation between the various security agencies.&quot;Our co-operation has borne fruit as evidenced by the many attacks we have foiled. We also thank the public for their continued support. We urge everyone to remain vigilant to make Kenya safer,&quot; he said.Boinnet said security agencies are working tirelessly to ensure safety and urged the public to continue supporting their efforts.Four terrorists stormed the mall, killed at least 70 people and injured more than 100 others. The terrorists were killed after a four-day siege that shocked the world.Following the attack, the Ministry of Interior has released a public awareness video that tells you what to do in case of a similar attack.With words Run, Hide or Fight, or simply RHF, the video describes what one should do in case there is a siege.A commentator leads listeners on a survival plan - the steps one should take - and seems to have scenes from the Westgate Mall attack.It advises victims to run to a safer spot and not stop to take pictures, and if possible try to help others. The other alternative is to hide or barricade when under attack.It also advises those caught in such situations to put their phone on silent mode and call the police.As a final option, one should improvise weapons or tools within the surroundings to fight the attackers when push comes to shove&quot;Incapacitate the attacker and help each other because your survival depends on your reaction.&quot;Just like a phoenix rising from the ashes, the mall that was once covered in rubble with blood-stained walls is morphing into Kenya&#39;s premiere shopping destination. Its reconstruction depicts the country&#39;s resilience against terrorism.Customers flocked to the mall when The Standard visited Wednesday. They had to queue for screening before accessing the mall.Inside the mall, hawk-eyed men in black suits, two on each of the three floors, patrol the place as clients go about their business. The men are in constant communication.Most stalls are already occupied, some by giant companies such as Safaricom and Airtel.