Kenya&rsquo;s standards agency has differed sharply with the Public Works principal secretary on the implementation of new construction codes.While Kenya Bureau of Standards (Kebs) Managing Director Charles Ongwae wants the construction industry to implement the Eurocodes immediately, Public Works PS Paul Maringa is pushing for gradual implementation as the sector observes caution. Both Mr Ongwae and Prof Maringa were speaking Wednesday during a construction forum that is looking on ways in which the construction sector can transition from the current British codes to Eurocodes. Eurocodes are the 10 European standards (harmonised technical rules), specifying how construction should be conducted within the European Union (EU), and also the standards of materials to be used.Ongwae said Eurocodes are essential for trade since most countries have now implemented them. He added that since Britain walked out of the EU (Brexit) it doesn&rsquo;t make much economic sense to use British codes. Such a move could have Kenya isolated from trade in construction materials.However, Maringa averred that caution needs to be observed in the implementation of Eurocodes, since there is need to protect the local industry from foreign construction products.&ldquo;Standards are all about trade and not politics,&rdquo; Ongwae said. &ldquo;Eurocodes are essential for trade and if construction materials being traded by Kenya do not meet these standards, then we could be isolated from world trade,&rdquo; he added.Ongwae also asserted that it will be hard for the country to achieve Vision 2030 by using obsolete British standards, since the many infrastructural projects that we need will have to adhere to eurocodes.But Maringa on the other hand opined: &ldquo;We are not being isolationists but Kebs should be careful to prioritise local standards even as we adopt foreign ones.&rdquo; Ongwae sharply countered this by saying Kenya cannot develop its own individual standards since &ldquo;we live in a global society and common standards are vital for trade&rdquo;.The PS explained that Eurocodes should prescribe a path in which local technologies and materials are brought on board and not excluded.&ldquo;For example there is the Mangrove timber from the Coast which is used to construct dhows and also for tourist architecture. How will this be accommodated in the Eurocodes?&rdquo; Maringa posed. &ldquo;What about the black sand in Naivasha that is used for local construction. How will it be localised?&rdquo;The PS explained that we cannot exclude local manufacturing in favour of imported materials because of eurocodes. He further added that European standards have taken long to be studied and understood, while local ones have barely been researched and fully understood.&ldquo;I am not a cynic. But I think we should open our eyes when it comes to adopting foreign standards in case we sacrifice our local industries,&rdquo; Maringa averred.