Vision, as aptly put by a professor of human sociology is&ldquo;&hellip;the compass to success land&rdquo; and in recent times, no telecoms multinational in Africa&rsquo;s dynamic market-place have proven these words so true as have TECNO. Africa&rsquo;s Telecoms landscape have seen a lot of growth not only because of rapid growing economies in the continent but also because players like the multinational brand TECNO have a strong African focus embodied in their devices; from product R&amp;D, material design after sales support to value chain development.Flagship consumers are smart-phone size sensitive; market trends show that shoppers are gunning for larger screen flagships because they are more grip friendly, flaunt immersive multimedia rendering and somewhat a subtle statement of stature.It is reassuring that TECNO puts it out there that it will not be downgraded high-end specs with across the rumored size ranges of new Phantom6 size. I think that is fantastic because often times we&rsquo;ve seen mobile brands try to sell consumers lower specifications in flagship variants by riding on the flagship brand name.The TECNO Phantom series Another expression of TECNO&rsquo;s quality service delivery culture, to markets in Africa, is the brand&rsquo;s development of its Phantom series product line. Known for their top end specifications upgrades, premium material design and craftsmanship, TECNO Phantom series are tailored to meet the refined taste of Africa&rsquo;s elite consumer class; delivering pure luxury and return on investment to mobile users who prefer lifestyle smartphones.A lot of reviewers are in agreement that TECNO has a fantastic flagship in its new TECNO Phantom6.A quick glance at some of the specifications we expect to find on the TECNO phantom 6 or its variant, the Phantom 6+ are MediaTek&rsquo;s Helio X20 Deca-core processor&hellip;Phantom 6+ takes mobile phone security to another levelThe world out there is becoming very difficult for mobile devices and in fact, some folks actually call it the mobile &ldquo;wild west&rdquo;. People now task their devices with several responsibilities including protecting their personal data and carrying out work related activities. These responsibilities have made it important for us to take the issue of protecting our phones against hackers and intruders very seriously.Let your DNA do the magicThe Phantom 6+ comes with a very reliable fingerprint recognition technology similar to that found on the Phantom 5, which was super fast to respond. In only 0.4seconds, the fingerprint feature can unlock your phone and give you easy access to your device. The positioning of the fingerprint feature behind the device makes it difficult for novices to ascertain exactly how the phone was unlocked.Experience the ease of Eye recognitionYour eye can be used to add an additional layer of security on the Phantom 6+. The Phantom 6+ eye-scanner is built with the latest eyeball recognition technology to make it safer for you to either encrypt or unlock your phone with your eyes. Just like in the CAMON C9 where this feature was debuted, smartphone enthusiasts will expect the eye-scanner to be more functional and perform better under low light; an advancement I expect to see on the Phantom6+.Free inbuilt antivirus software Is antivirus protection really necessary for a smartphone, you might ask? The answer is yes. As smartphones get more common, so do threats that target these devices.With these triple security layers in the Phantom 6+, it is clear that TECNO is definitely not treating the issue of security with kid gloves. So provided your phone doesn&rsquo;t get missing, you can be sure of its safety both on and offline.