&nbsp;Sikizana Trust, a small community-based organisation in Makueni, was established in 2002 by Cosmas Nzilili and Rachel Katuku. Its principles are based on the rules of conduct Nzilili acquired as a scholarship winner at Starehe Boys Centre. In 2007, the small team established a rescue centre known as The Sikizana Trust Rescue Centre at the border of Chyulu Hills and Tsavo West National Park.Here, on a 15-acre piece of land, they constructed a dormitory for rescued children, some of whom had been taken captive by truck drivers plying the Nairobi-Mombasa Road.While the main focus was on children&rsquo;s right to education and youth empowerment, the group could not ignore the massive environmental degradation that was taking place. As a result, the group lacks enough water for washing, cooking and cleaning. Water has to be fetched from a community borehole a kilometre away that has long queues throughout the day.The group, which has the support of the nearby Kilaguni Serena Lodge, is now focusing on conserving the tree cover around Chyulu Hills, the main water catchment area that supports much of the life in Chyulu Hills and Tsavo West National Park.They are advocating and facilitating tree planting throughout the region but especially in schools where there are boreholes for irrigation. This was not without challenges, though.There was resistance from surrounding communities who did not understand the relevance of their environmental conservation initiatives. In addition, given the long dry spells in the region, tree planting could only be done during the rainy season. The small seedlings were also under threat from livestock and stray wild animals during the dry season.Still, the small initiatives are bearing fruits. There has been a reduction in the rate of charcoal burning and wood carving. Game meat, which was a common meal at homes and other food joints, is now a thing of the past.This has also reduced cases of people suffering from infected meat-related ailments. Most schools now have a forest and the community has taken the practice of tree planting to their homes.