Proponents of the much-hyped Kisii community unity campaign are back to the drawing board after their plans to defect to the Jubilee Party took off to a false start.Of the group that had showed willingness to join the new party, only two &mdash; former Commission for the Implementation of the Constitution (CIC) Chairman Charles Nyachae and Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi &mdash; were paraded during Jubilee&rsquo;s launch two weeks ago. Mr Nyachae&rsquo;s presence was much hyped. When given the opportunity to address the delegates, he said the Abagusii community was behind President Uhuru Kenyatta.Prominent members of the Abagusii Unity Group who had made two trips to State House did not attend the launch as was widely expected. They include Kisii Senator Chris Obure and MPs Zachary Onyonka (Kitutu Chache South) and Simon Ogari (Bomachoge Chache).Maangi, the Kisii ODM Branch Organising Secretary, is already in trouble with the Orange party, which has threatened to expel him over his presence at the launch. ODM stalwarts like West Mugirango MP Timothy Bosire say the Unity group has lost steam and are back to the drawing board after realising they made a mistake by failing to consult voters before their decision to join Jubilee.Bosire claimed the group grew cold feet upon learning that voters were not willing to decamp with them. &ldquo;Some leaders want to hide behind the call for the community&rsquo;s unity yet they are only serving their selfish interests. Jubilee will fail in their move to get a foothold in Kisii because none of those leaders they are working with represent the interest of the people,&rdquo; said Bosire. He challenged the leaders to tell the community what their dalliance with the Jubilee government had brought the region.&nbsp; &ldquo;Jubilee has failed to fulfill all its promises, it should not fool us of better things after the next General Election,&rdquo; he said.But Maangi said their unity movement had&nbsp; not been deflated and that Kenyans should expect a big announcement soon.A day after he was listed among ODM rebels facing expulsion for flirting with Jubilee, Maanga remained defiant, saying he had no apology to make for attending the launch. &ldquo;I am only working with them (Jubilee) and will continue doing so because I am convinced they mean well for this country,&rdquo; the deputy governor said. &ldquo;I am still firmly in ODM, my party leadership should stop intimidating members. There are clear procedures to follow when a member decides to defect.&rdquo;Maangi accused the ODM leadership of double standards as it did not &ldquo;raise a finger&rdquo; when South Mugirango MP Manson Nyamweya defected to Kenya National Congress (KNC).During his monthly media briefing on Wednesday, Maangi said the Unity group will soon make a major political statement about the Gusii community&rsquo;s direction ahead of next year&rsquo;s General Election.But even as the deputy governor insists the move to Jubilee is still on, Mr Obure has kept off and is yet to comment on his group&rsquo;s activities since the Jubilee Party was launched.Other proponents of the Gusii Unity outfit, Kitutu Chache South&rsquo;s Richard Onyonka and Bomachoge Chache&rsquo;s Simon Ogari didn&rsquo;t attend either the Kasarani or the ODM Mombasa rallies. Contacted, Onyonka said people should not read too much into his failure to attend the two rallies.&ldquo;We are tired of being taken round in circles. As a community, we have experienced politicians who should offer us direction. We will not allow people to continue giving us political lectures,&rdquo; he said.The pro-Jubilee MPs appear to be preparing for a fresh round of rallies to campaign for President Uhuru Kenyatta in Kisii and Nyamira. Last week, the leaders were in South Mugirango where they said announced there would be a major political shift in the next General Election.Area MP Manson Nyamweya asked his fellow leaders to join him in KNC. But Nyachae asked the residents to join Jubilee and re-elect President Kenyatta.&ldquo;Let&rsquo;s us support Jubilee because this is where our interests are well served,&rdquo; Nyachae said.