Former chairman of the defunct Constitution Implementation Commission (CIC) Charles Nyachae is yet to make his game-plan known even after he attended the recent launch of President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s Jubile Party at Kasarani, Nairobi.During the event, Mr Nyachae sat on the high table, just three chairs from President Kenyatta. He was among the few dignitaries who had the privilege of speaking at the high profile event. His presence at the launch and dalliance with the Jubilee bigwigs has left tongues wagging in Kisii, with many leaders and voters challenging him to declare make his game-plan known even as political realignments begin taking shape ahead of the 2017 elections.While it seems he is keen on taking over the political baton from his father, former powerful civil-servant turned politician, Simeon Nyachae, the former CIC chairman will not disclose his agenda just yet.But in his backyard, he has been steering the so-called&nbsp; Kisii Unity Group, alongside Senator Chris Obure and Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi.During the burial of his wife Esther two weeks ago, the elder Nyachae, the Kisii political kingpin, gave his blessings&nbsp; to the Kiss Unity Group in what observers say may have been an indirect way of giving blessings to his son and an apparent political heir.The Nyachae family is highly respected among the Omugusii and no politician has ever stood to criticise him in public. Mzee Nyachae&rsquo;s father was a paramount chief and a freedom fighter. The family has massive wealth and wields a lot of influence in the Jubilee government.Leaders who spoke to The Standard On Sunday said what happened at Kasarani is a sign that the young Nyachae is destined for bigger things in Omugisii politics. Despite not representing any party during the Jubilee merger, Nyachae sat third left of President Kenyatta and second after first lady Margret Kenyatta.He enjoys a close family relationship with Uhuru and the large Kenyatta family because the relationship between the two families dates back to founding President Mzee Jommo Kenyatta&rsquo;s days.However, opposition leaders from Gusii believe this is a scheme to continue awarding the Nyachae family with top leadership positions.Kitutu Masaba MP and ODM National Treasurer Timothy Bosire says the Nyachae family has had enough and it is time to pass the baton to other leaders.&ldquo;This is a move to have some individuals gain through selfish interests at the expense of the community. We are not fools to be following some individuals all the time. We need to be told what kind of development the community has achieved through such associations with the Jubilee government,&rdquo; said Bosire. But the younger Nyachae insists the community stands to gain from Jubilee.&ldquo;We need to have leaders who are ready to involve residents in development because as a community, we have a big stake in Jubilee and the launch of the party last week presents us the chance of having more leadership opportunities,&rdquo; he says.A graduate of the London School of Economics and Political Science and a former Council Member of the Law Society of Kenya, Nyachae has managed to keep the Kisii residents guessing on his next political move. He says he has been under pressure to declare his political stand but maintains he will announce the same when the right time comes.&ldquo;Once we get views from every stakeholder will be at a position to make that major announcement. Let nobody think that we are cowards. We have every right to contest any political seat in party of the country,&rdquo; he recently said.During the burial of his wife, the elder Nyacahe said his support for President Kenyatta could not be questioned.&ldquo;The first President Jomo Kenyatta did a lot for my family. There is nothing that will stop me from supporting the Jubilee government. The Gusii community must support the government,&rdquo; said elder Nyachae.In December 2013 and in June 2014, the younger Nyachae played a major political role in the Nyaribari Chache and Bochari by-elections where Ford People candidates Richard Tongi and Zebedeo Opore won, respectively.Maangi, an ally of Nyachae, said: &ldquo;We had an understanding that Nyachae represents us at the launch. This is a political game and we don&rsquo;t want to take chances,&rdquo; said Maangi.