A former mayor was crushed to death when a fire engine ploughed into a group of demonstrators which included former Lands Cabinet Secretary Charity Ngilu. Martha Mwangangi, a former Kitui town mayor, was with Ngilu and a group of traders who were demonstrating against the demolition of their kiosks by the county government. As Mwangangi and Ngilu addressed the protesters, the fire engine was driven into the crowd and it ran over the former mayor and crushed her head and stomach. She died instantly and her body parts were strewn all over the road. Ngilu escaped death because here aides shoved her out of harm&#39;s way. We found a shocked and shaken Ngilu in her vehicle at the Kitui police station, as she wept.&nbsp; &quot;It is sad, sad,&quot; was all Ngilu could say before she was driven to a private hospital where one of her aides told us she was treated for shock. ALSO READ: Charity Ngilu escapes death as former mayor is killed in Kitui Trouble started in the morning when small scale traders who had constructed kiosks along the roads at Kalundu, Kunda Kindu and BAT woke up to flattened business premises, prompting a protest by the merchants who were later joined by Ngilu and Mwangangi. Before the tragic event, the NARC&nbsp;leader had attempted to address the crowd in town, then led them to Kitui police station to register their grievances. At the police station, only Ngilu and few traders were let in. When she came out, the protesters who had jammed the station&#39;s entrance followed her towards a petrol station. It is then that the fire engine suddenly emerged. The driver of the fire engine was arrested and locked up at Kitui police station. A sombre mood engulfed the town as curious residents milled outside Kitui police station where Mwangangi&#39;s lifeless body was. Mwangangi has been one of Ngilu&#39;s most active campaigners since the former CS declared her interest in the governor&#39;s seat. Earlier, an unidentified woman reportedly committed suicide after she found her kiosk at Kalundu demolished and her merchandise worth thousands of shillings destroyed. ALSO READ: Woman dies and body left lying on hospital floor A woman who identified herself as Gladys said the deceased was depressed by the scene of her destroyed kiosk which had goods she bought using borrowed funds. The demolitions attracted the attention of Kitui Central MP Makali Mulu who went to the&nbsp;Kalundu area to assess the damage. However, angry traders pelted the MP and his team with stones, accusing him of doing little to protect their businesses. Mr Mulu was whisked away by his aides. The MP condemned the incident, and said&nbsp; traders have a right to earn a living. &quot;Sensitive issues to do with demolition of business premises should be handled cautiously,&quot; he said, even as it emerged that the County government had issued a notice to the traders to vacate the area. Enoch Wambua, an aspirant for the Kitui Senate condemned the action by county officials. &quot;The right to demonstrate is enshrined in our Constitution and the security apparatus had a constitutional duty and responsibility to ensure the safety of all demonstrators, including Hon Martha Mwangangi,&quot; said Wambua, echoing sentiments of CORD leader Raila Odinga who condemned the demolitions. ALSO READ: Woman dies and body left lying on hospital floor