The family of a lecturer whose body was found in a mortuary in Kisumu two days after he disappeared is seeking justice. David Oluoch, an economics lecturer at Maseno University, went missing on Thursday last week before his body was found in the Jaramogi Oginga Teaching and Referral Hospital mortuary. He is suspected to have been abducted before being murdered by unknown people. Geoffrey Odhiambo, a brother of the lecturer, told The Standard that mortuary records showed his brother died from injuries inflicted through mob injustice. &quot;The last I saw him was Thursday morning as he left for work. He did not return and all attempts to reach him through his phone were futile. We tried the whole night to no avail,&quot; he said. ALSO READ: Police killed 12 people in 175 protests in the last 11 month: Agency says However, on Friday night, Mr Odhiambo received a phone call from one of the lecturers asking where Oluoch was. &quot;He asked me if I had seen my brother and told me that his car had been towed to Central Police Station,&quot; he noted. On Saturday morning, the family went to the police station where they found the car. But police officers on duty told them they did not know who the owner was. &quot;Revelations that the car had been found abandoned around Railways estate were worrying but we did not suspect the worst because he had no issues with anybody,&quot; added Odhiambo. RELEASED DOCUMENTS &quot;We are wondering why the officers failed to secure the car and why they released documents belonging to Maseno University that were found in the car,&quot; said Odhiambo. He said while they were at the police station, they received information that a body had been picked up in Nyawita estate the previous night. The family visited the mortuary, where they confirmed that it was Oluoch. ALSO READ: Ugandan LRA fighter Ongwen denies atrocity charges, says he was victim The family is disputing claims the lecturer was killed by a mob. They also feel the case was not handled well and accuse the police of being reluctant to get to the bottom of the matter. &quot;His car was found abandoned around Railways estate while his body was found in Nyawita estate, several miles apart. That alone raises suspicion,&quot; said Odhiambo. He said while the records showed the body was taken to the mortuary by an officer from Central Police Station, they were referred to Kondele Police Station when they went to make inquiries about the death.