The installation of&nbsp;a community spokesman in Eldoret has sparked controversy among elders and rumours of state backlash. The installation of Samwel Kamunu wa Kafari, 79, as a Kikuyu community spokesman on Saturday is threatening to split the community&#39;s elders right down the middle. A section of the elders have dismissed Kamunu as a &#39;tribal king&#39;. The Gikuyu Embu Meru Association (GEMA) national organising secretary, Paul Mwangi, said the community was not involved in the installation and that the entire process was organised by a group of politicians in Eldoret town. &quot;It is only in Murang&#39;a at Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga shrine where all cultural ceremonies like installation of elders is done. What happened in Eldoret is a disgrace to our Agikuyu culture, which needs cleansing,&quot; he said. He said the region is volatile especially in the run-up to next year&#39;s general election, and that all communities ought to work towards fostering peace and cohesion. READ MORE Kass International Marathon: Over 3,500 turn up for annual contest ON YOUR MARK, GET SET! Stage ready for this year&rsquo;s Kass Marathon in Eldoret today Kass Marathon - Where champions are born Joseph Wainaina, another elder, rubbished the ceremony, terming it a stage-managed event aimed at benefiting specific politicians from the Kikuyu community in Uasin Gishu County. COMMUNITY CONCERNS Mr Wainaina said leaders from the Kikuyu community will not acknowledge the self-proclaimed elder whom he termed an impostor. &quot;This is not consecration, why is it that our people who live in this county did not attend the function, this was a function meant for a few greedy people who want to tarnish the name of our community,&quot; he said. He said elders will not acknowledge the self-acclaimed spokesman, saying the Kikuyu culture demands that such events be held on the community&#39;s shrines.&nbsp; &quot;The community should meet and get blessings from other ethnic groups living in this region before such functions,&quot; he said. Top security officers in Uasin Gishu County were transferred hours after the controversial coronation on Saturday, Area police county commander Nelson Taliti was moved to Meru County where he will serve in the same capacity. Taliti had served as the police commander in the area for less than a month. It was said the police boss may have been transferred over the manner in which he handled the ceremony. Officers in anti-riot gear cordoned off 64 Stadium in Eldoret, which was supposed to be the venue of the ceremony, saying the gathering was illegal. Taliti said he tried to stop the ceremony because of security concerns. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;