Former Prime minister Raila Odinga has poured scorn on projects initiated by President Uhuru Kenyatta during his two-day tour of Western region recently. Raila yesterday ruled out the possibility of the projects being undertaken, noting they had not been budgeted for and their sustainability is not guaranteed. While on his tour of western that ended on Thursday, Uhuru re-opened Pan Paper factory in Webuye and commissioned roads to be upgraded. &ldquo;On some of the projects, they just come with tractors, which are used for commissioning and then returned to where they were brought from. The projects stall because the government has over-committed itself already on non-existent projects where money has been lost,&rdquo; Raila said. &ldquo;Right now, the government doesn&rsquo;t have even the capacity to insert any more projects on its budget.&rdquo; He spoke in Luanda Constituency where he attended the funeral service for Nathan Muyera, father of former ODM Western region coordinator George Muyera. He also commissioned a new stadium, built through Constituency Development Fund, in Mumboha. ALSO READ: Cracks emerge as Jubilee Party leaders fight in public Vihiga Senator George Khaniri said he had not seen, during his over 20 years in Parliament, a government so corrupt that it steals from itself. &ldquo;We hope that when Uhuru and Ruto came to Western, they came to bid us bye because this is their last term in government. He is going down in Kenya&rsquo;s history books as the only Kenya&rsquo;s one-term President,&rdquo; he said. He said the President was expected to waive sugarcane farmers&rsquo; debts during his tour, but instead only waved at the people on roadsides. In Kakamega, Governor Wycliffe Oparanya said the President was only implementing what the Grand Coalition Government started. &ldquo;Political stance in Western remains intact. Any attempt by Jubilee to hoodwink the electorate through projects that are the brainchild of the Grand Coalition Government will not bear fruit. Western is a solidly Opposition stronghold,&rdquo; Oparanya said. Ford Kenya Secretary General Eseli Simiyu said President Uhuru&rsquo;s visit was political. Raila is today expected to meet boda boda operators from across the Nyanza region to discuss their economic prospects and the forth coming elections. Nyando MP Fred Outa and Kisumu Woman Representative Rose Nyamunga, who are mobilising the teams, said the Orange party is drafting a massive campaign plan aimed at consolidating its grassroots support ahead of the General Election. - Reporting by Eric Lungai, Grace Wekesa and Kepher Otieno ALSO READ: Why Raila and Uhuru are fighting for Coast and Western