The national government has launched the construction of mega irrigation schemes in Bungoma and Busia counties. The projects will be funded by the African Finance Development Bank and the Korean government to the tune of Sh20 billion. Water Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa unveiled the projects yesterday, saying they would be begin once all the logistical issues were in place, including compensation for the families that will be affected. Speaking after touring four of the projects in Bungoma and two in Busia, the CS said the Government was keen to see the end of poverty, which has ravaged the majority of Kenyans. &quot;We signed the MoU with our development partners early last month and want to see that water is available for domestic use, irrigation and the supply of power so that there is plenty of food in our homes,&quot; said Mr Wamalwa. ALSO READ: Male security guard helps woman give birth as health practitioners boycott work In Bungoma, the CS unveiled the Sango Irrigation Scheme in Bumula constituency that will cost Sh4.6 billion to build. The scheme is expected to serve approximately 40,000 residents in both Bungoma and the neighbouring Kakamega. The project will be undertaken on River Sio and will be used for irrigation as well as to generate electricity and supply water to over 20,000 people. &quot;We have also unveiled the construction of Kibisi Irrigation Scheme in River Kibisi in Webuye East constituency at a cost of Sh5 billion, which will serve Webuye, Kimilili and Tongaren sub-counties,&quot; he said. KOCHOLIA SCHEME In Busia, the CS launched the Kocholia Irrigation Scheme on River Malakisi that will be built at a cost of Sh5.6 billion and supply water to 10,000 people. He also launched the Ang&#39;ololo scheme on River Malaba that will cost Sh4.6 billion and serve Kenya and parts of Uganda. The two irrigation schemes are situated in Teso North constituency led by MP Arthur Odera. ALSO READ: Busia children sue for injection gone terribly wrong &quot;We are committed to ensuring that we increase the acreage under irrigation to help diversify farming in this region. The Government wants to create employment for thousands of people who were previously jobless,&quot; said Wamalwa. &nbsp;