Anxiety has gripped a leading school in Nyandarua County after some pupils failed to get part of their exam results. What was expected to be a special day for 68 students from Kanyugi Primary School near Engineer town turned out to be one of the darkest days after they failed to get their English results. The situation was worsened by lack of information from Education ministry officials. The school has over the years been one of the top performers in the national examination in the area. News that it did not receive the results was met with shock and disbelief. SPECULATION RIFE READ MORE Jubilation as Moi Kabarak emerges top again KCPE performance drops as stringent steps to curb cheating bear fruit 2016 KCPE exam results out A section of the school&rsquo;s teachers speculated that test results for English may have been lost after some of the pupils&rsquo; composition scripts were damaged after the examination. &ldquo;One of the invigilators dropped the papers in a muddy place and many of them were damaged and thus they could not be marked by the examiners,&rdquo; said a teacher who declined to be named. The school&rsquo;s chairman Mwaniki Ndichu confirmed the impasse, adding that they were waiting for official information from the ministry. Mwaniki added that some of the students had received all their results but many of them had issues with the English paper. &ldquo;The only information that we are have is only from the results SMS that we have received as we wait for the official directive from the Government,&rdquo; he said. ANY ANOMALY Contacted, Nyandarua South sub-county education officer Joseph Ngojo said he was not aware of the anomaly but promised to follow up. He said he was making plans to have papers for the just-ended KCSE exams ferried back to Nairobi for marking. &ldquo;We have not received the official KCPE results and once we have them we shall issue a statement if there is any anomaly,&rdquo; he said. &nbsp;Patrick Kimani, a parent told of their shock and anxiety, adding that they were in darkness on the fate of the results. &ldquo;Some of the students who were keenly waiting for their results are in shock and the situation has been worsened by lack of information from the Government,&rdquo; he said.