Major international coffee buyers have expressed interest in buying coffee produced and processed in the county. A delegation of 31 stakeholders in the coffee industry from six countries headed by Specialty Coffee Association of America official Lisa Pacini visited coffee farms, factories and a mill in the county to inspect how the coffee is grown and processed ahead of signing agreements. The buyers are from USA, Canada, Australia, China, Ukraine and Thailand. They were keen on seeing how the varieties are planted, tended and the value-addition processes. Among them were coffee dealers from coffee-producing countries of Brazil and Columbia on a learning mission and information exchange with local coffee farmers. They were taken around by Governor Martin Wambora and interim head of Coffee Directorate Kiplimo Meli. READ: Armed gang raids coffee factory in Kirinyaga, escapes with 63 bags They visited organic coffee farmer Nelson Muchiri&rsquo;s farms, the county&rsquo;s oldest coffee plantation planted in 1948, Murue coffee factory and a county mill. First parchment The development comes when the county coffee mill jointly owned by the county government and 24 cooperatives is nearing completion, with Wambora revealing it will process the first parchment in February. Wambora said the county was seeking profitable markets for coffee, which stood at 14 million kilogrammes last year. &ldquo;We will sell our coffee to the buyers from the six countries. They couple as roasters and will be buying the coffee directly from us, hence bypassing middlemen. This will translate to more income to our farmers,&rdquo; said Wambora. He expressed optimism that due to the county&rsquo;s efforts to promote the industry by hiring extension officers, building a mill and finding market to raise incomes, farmers would increase coffee production. The governor also lauded the national government for waiving Sh65 million debts local farmers owe cooperatives. Melli commended the county mill efforts, noting that it will cut the cost of transportation, create jobs and earn farmers more money. On theft of coffee in stores in various factories in the country, Melli urged the managements to secure their premises by using CCTV cameras, engaging police officers and employing strong and trained guards.