Kenya Ports Authority and Kenya Revenue Authority officers scrutinise some of the goods seized at the Port of Mombasa. [Photo: KelvinKarani/standard] Twenty-four containers with contraband goods were Thursday seized at the Port of Mombasa. The Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) said the arrest was the largest seizure ever at the port. KRA Chief Port Manager Joseph Kaguru said three containers of milk powder and 21 containers of clothes from Dubai and China respectively were destined for the local market. Despite increased surveillance at the country&#39;s entry points, the Anti-Counterfeit Agency estimates that the trade in counterfeits stands at Sh70 billion annually. ALSO READ: KRA offers amnesty for return of off-shore cash The agency says counterfeit goods worth Sh10 million are seized in the local market every month, adding that the menace was taking a toll on the country&#39;s economy. Kenya Association of Manufacturers (KAM) recently said members were incurring an annual net loss of Sh30 billion because of counterfeit goods. Thursday, Mr Karugu said the seized contraband had an estimated value of Sh150 million and that the national government would have lost Sh75 million in tax had the smuggler managed to sneak the cargo out of the port. &quot;We intercepted 24, 40-feet containers of concealed new garments and milk powder, which is the largest single seizure by the authority,&quot; said Kaguru. The new garments and shoes imported from China were disguised as cold rooms being imported by horticultural farms, which do not attract any tax. Kaguru said although documents indicated that the milk powder - disguised in flasks and sewing machines - were bound for Uganda, investigations had revealed that they were to be diverted to the Kenyan market. The goods were destined for Nairobi, he added. &quot;Joint investigations with other Government agencies into this smuggling syndicate will continue and the culprits will be prosecuted and the goods forfeited to the State,&quot; he said. ALSO READ: Kenya Revenue Authority signs new MOU to help curb tax evasion Already, over 10 clearing and forwarding firms suspected of dealing with contraband have been suspended or deregistered as the taxman tightens the war against the illegal trade. Sources at the port indicate that the containers arrived at the port two weeks ago as State investigating agencies monitored them and waited for the importer to come forward so they could arrest him. Labels on the milk sachets and tins showed the product was from New Zealand but KRA said it was coming in from Dubai. Kaguru said clearing documents for 10 of the 24 containers had been logged into the KRA system via Transvista Clearing and Forwarding Company, whose licence had since been suspended. KRA has acquired three new scans to help in the fight against counterfeit imports. The authority also announced Thursday that success in the seizure of illegal goods at the port was due to intelligence sharing, risk management and use of the scanners. &quot;This is yielding fruit in the fight against contraband goods at the Port of Mombasa,&quot; said Kaguru. At the same time, the taxman also seized three containers carrying scrap car batteries that were being exported to Singapore. ALSO READ: Trial of KPA managers to proceed, High Court rules