Parliament descended into chaos yet again as MPs from both sides of the political divide engaged in shouting matches and even exchanged blows.The Jubilee and Coalition for Reform and Democracy (CORD) MPs went for each other&#39;s jugular during the second special sitting to amend the election laws to allow for manual voting in the 2017 General Election. But unlike, the first special sitting on Tuesday, which was equally chaotic, yesterday&#39;s sitting left some MPs nursing wounds after legislators threw the title &quot;honourable&quot; out of the window and engaged in fisticuffs.Tigania East MP Mpuru Aburi and Embakasi South MP Irshad Sumra emerged from the House with injuries and later sought treatment at Nairobi Hospital. Sumra bore a bloodied face while Aburi was said to have been kicked in the stomach by an Opposition MP. He also suffered a bruised face.Opposition MPs eventually staged a walk out and announced that they will go back to the streets after Jubilee insisted on pushing through the controversial amendments. ALSO READ: Disputed election laws that Jubilee MPs passedThe over 60 CORD MPs said they were denied a chance by Speaker Justin Muturi to raise points of order over the legality of the special session and that the Government side had hatched a plot to &quot;use brutal force&quot; in approving the changes.Completely outnumbered, and with no chance of stalling the changes, most CORD MPs left the chamber, allowing the Jubilee members a field day to approve the changes which open the way for manual identification of voters and transmission of results in the next elections.&quot;We are now taking this to the next level. We will take this to the streets. We want to tell the Inspector General of Police, Joseph Boinnet to buy more tear gas. You will kill people, but you cannot stop Kenyans,&quot; said Senate Majority leader Moses Wetangula (Bungoma) at press conference later.The MPs further claimed that the walk out was prompted by information that there was a plot by Jubilee lawmakers to attack them, with Deputy Minority leader Jakoyo Midiwo (Gem) alleging that some Jubilee MPs had guns in the House.The MPs further claimed that a number of CORD members, including Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay) and Sumra (Embakasi South) had been assaulted.At the start of the session, there was total media black out after journalists were locked out of the chambers and live TV coverage of the proceedings suspended.There were claims that some of the MPs were physically assaulted during the session that saw Jubilee MPs bulldoze amendment to the electoral laws. ALSO READ: Law Society of Kenya criticises Duale for threatening Justice OdungaOutside Parliament, there was heavy security along Parliament Road and Harambee Avenue, which were both blockaded using huge water cannon trucks.Police officers on horse backs patrolled the area with instructions not to let anybody to access the august House.And for the second time, MPs were forced to park their vehicles at KICC and walk to Parliament.Immediately Jubilee bulldozed the amendments through, CORD MPs stormed out of the building and and later held a press conference to voice their frustrations.While outside Parliament, the CORD MPs chanted, &quot;a people united can never be defeated&quot; before marching to Milimani Courts, where they had filed a petition.Nyando MP Fred Outa rolled on the road while his colleagues blew whistles in defiance.The palpable tension was only washed away by momentary drizzles that forced some of the police officers to take cover in their vehicles. ALSO READ: Disputed election laws that Jubilee MPs passedInitially, there were reports that the Opposition leaders wanted to stage a protest around Parliament Buildings and were planning to bring their supporters from various constituencies in Nairobi.A police officer disclosed that there was intelligence over the plans and police were sent to hot spots like Kibera and Kariobang&#39;i to stop any form of grouping.CORD MPs described the event as constitutional coup and warned of massive street protests.A disappointed Abdulswamad Shariff (MP, Mvita) claimed Jubilee was out to rig next year&#39;s polls.&quot;This is a constitutional coup. The law was negotiated by both sides just two months ago. What has changed for Jubilee to have this kind of seal to amend the electoral laws,&quot; said Abdulswamad, adding that the amendment can only be done after six months.However, Jubilee MPs expressed their joy over what they termed as a win for all Kenyans. They later assembled outside Parliament where they sang: &quot;Yote yawezekana bila fujo (all is possible without violence).Dagoreti South MP Dennis Waweru accused CORD leaders of being selfish and of only pursing agenda that would benefit Opposition leader Raila Odinga.&quot;CORD seems to have sensed defeat and now wants an excuse to cause chaos. Their intention is to insist on electronic system so that when it fails they demand for a nusu mkate (coalition) government,&quot; said Mr Waweru. ALSO READ: Do not assent to amended electoral laws, COTU urges President Uhuru&quot;We will not take their nonsense anymore. We will take them head on to ensure the country holds a peaceful elections. The elections are for 40 million Kenyans not about Raila. With or without Raila we will hold the polls,&quot; he added.Fafi MP Barre Shill accused the Opposition of promoting politics of violence, saying the chaos would have been worse had Jubilee MPs not restrained themselves.