Opposition leaders have castigated the Jubilee government for taking the crisis in the health sector for granted while Kenyans die.Amani National Congress (ANC) party leader Musalia Mudavadi and ODM leader Raila Odinga said deceit and corruption by Jubilee regime when confronted with public interest was solely responsible for the suffering of Kenyans as health workers continue to strike.&ldquo;Jubilee is in the habit of lying and then dishonouring legal agreements it should enforce. They duped teachers whose reaction paralysed the education sector. Now they entered a CBA with medical professionals which they don&rsquo;t want to honour while Kenyans suffer in need of medical attention&rdquo;, said Mudavadi. &nbsp;&ldquo;You need trustworthy and honest leadership to provide an environment to prosper. A government that shreds agreements meant to save lives of Kenyans before the ink dries on them is not worth being in power. Jubilee can auction the country and walk away with a shrug the way they are ferrying sacks full of looted public money,&rdquo; he said.The leaders took a swipe at Jubilee over corruption and asked the government to carry its cross and not divert attention by blaming the opposition.&ldquo;Corruption is not endemic. Corruption is now Jubilee public policy. It is permissible to steal as much as possible. That is why Kenyans must know the country is bankrupt and another five years of Jubilee in power will be pure anarchy&rdquo;, said Mudavadi.&nbsp;&ldquo;Two wrongs don&rsquo;t make a right. When told to stop stealing, Jubilee turns and starts a smear campaign on me and opposition leaders as if that absolves them and is a license for them to steal more. Let them answer questions about their stealing and stop pointing fingers at others,&rdquo; said Raila.He denied that he was protecting corrupt Cord governors in exchange for them bankrolling his campaigns.&ldquo;There is no truth in it. It&rsquo;s shear mudslinging to divert attention. They have no shred of evidence otherwise why haven&rsquo;t they arrest any governor? They will not get away with it the way they cheated their way to power by lying about The Hague. We now have a formula to Nasa (catch) them under a united opposition,&rdquo; he paused.Mudavadi and Raila said corruption in the ministry of health denied by the Jubilee government is directly related to the government&rsquo;s inability to honour wages agreements with doctors and nurses.&ldquo;If the government has been stolen dry and is in ICU, the ministry of health is in HDU because of corruption&rdquo;, Mudavadi said.Raila wondered why the president and his deputy were running around the country with sacks of money yet they cannot pay health workers a decent wage as agreed.&ldquo;There is no miracle where our money is going when the president and his deputy distribute sh50 million a week to buy loyalty,&rdquo; he said.