A dark cloud hovered over yesterday&rsquo;s 53rd Jamhuri Day celebrations. The occasion came in the wake of a painful doctors&rsquo; strike and a horrific tragedy that left scores of Kenyans dead. Although Kenyans still turned up in large numbers for the celebrations at the Nyayo National Stadium, Nairobi, the pomp, colour and excitement that traditionally accompanies the day were noticeably absent. The gloom was intensified when the dark clouds suddenly opened up, disrupting the programme of the event that marked President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s last address during his first term. The showers forced the organisers back to the planning table: the entire entertainment programme was reshuffled, to the disappointment of a number of groups that were scheduled to perform. ALSO READ: Getting into 2017, Kenyans must keep our great country peaceful As soon as the traditional military parade was done and the heavens opened, the Master of Ceremonies Peter Wanjohi cancelled the rest of the entertainment session. Deputy President William Ruto then took over. His speech was brief before handing over to President Uhuru Kenyatta. It started raining heavily, forcing those sitting on the terraces to leave the stadium to seek shelter. However, they got a rude shock at the various exits when they were turned back by security men, keen to ensure that the President does not address an empty stadium. It rained for over 10 minutes, and the rains only subsided towards the end of the President&rsquo;s speech. The entertainers who had been engaged to perform before the President and his dignitaries, failed to impress. Only the Maroon Commandos seemed to move the crowd. ALSO READ: Police disperse Kenyans protesting against corruption on Jamhuri Day The&nbsp;Maroon Commandos entertained guests with their traditional classics such as &lsquo;Choronyi&rsquo; and other hits before the President finally arrived to address the nation. FOREIGN DIGNITARIES Occasionally they would be stopped to allow foreign dignitaries to take up their places at the podium, but that did not stop the pulsating rhythms of their greatest hits from being heard across the stadium. The celebrations were attended by dignitaries including Togolese President Faure Gnassingbe and Jordan&rsquo;s Deputy Prime Minister Nasser Judeh. Although the duo did not make speeches, they were received with applause upon arrival at the podium. President Gnassingbe was received by Deputy President William Ruto while the Mr Nasser was received by Foreign Affairs Principal Secretary Amb Monica Juma. Leaders led by Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero, Chief Justice David Maraga, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi his Senate counterpart Ekwe Ethuro, Cabinet sectaries and chairpersons of the independent Commissions graced the occasion. ALSO READ: President Uhuru set to lead Jamhuri Day fete as regime struggles to stem corruption While politicians and Kenyans trooped to the stadium to mark the day, millions of others were glued to their televisions keenly following Uhuru&rsquo;s messages to the nation. Jamhuri Day, also called Independence Day, is one of the most important annual national days in Kenya. The day is celebrated on December 12 each year. Jamhuri is the Swahili word for &ldquo;republic&rdquo; and the holiday is meant to officially mark Kenya&rsquo;s independence in 1963. Kenya&rsquo;s two other national days are Madaraka Day celebrated on June 1 and Mashujaa Day celebrated on October 20. Madaraka Day commemorates the day Kenya attained internal self-rule. Formerly called Kenyatta Day, Mashujaa Day on the other hand is used to celebrate the country&rsquo;s heroes and heroines.