The Commission on Revenue Allocation (CRA) has declared Mombasa the best county in generating local revenue. The county was feted for tapping on local sources to generate revenue in a ceremony held at the end of the second County Revenue Automation Conference 2016 at the Sarova Whitesands Beach Resort and Spa on Wednesday evening. Kiambu County came second. The revenue allocation authority held the awards in recognition of growth in local county revenues between 2013 and 2016. The other top performer was Laikipia County. CRA CEO George Ooko said that the three winning counties had recorded remarkable improvements in generating their own revenues. READ MORE Trial of KPA managers to proceed, High Court rules JSC's Ojienda contests Sh378m tax fraud claim Kenya Revenue Authority tax demand faulted An elated Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, who was present during the award ceremony, saluted county staff for their sterling role that saw them bag the award. &quot;This great achievement was realised through the efforts of our own dedicated staff and automation of our county revenue collection systems,&quot; Joho said. The county has a fully automated revenue collection system that has sealed revenue collection loopholes and eased the business environment after taking over from the defunct Mombasa Municipal Council. The county collected Sh1.7 billion in 2013-2014 fiscal year. This rose to Sh2.4 billion in the 2014-2015 fiscal year, and Sh2.9 billion 2015-2016. In August, 2015, the county moved to automate its Single Business Permit (SBP) through the launch of an Electronic Business Permit System. The system allowed investors to apply for business permits online and track the status and progress of their application through a web and SMS-based tracking and notification system. According to Joho, the system cut the cost and time lost by investors seeking to set up businesses. The second to be automated was e-construction permit for the building industry. The county started the automated SBP system as a pilot project in Mombasa sub-county for three months before it was rolled out in other sub-counties. Joho said public service vehicles would be next on the e-line. &quot;We are on course to fully automate PSV licences for vehicle operators by the next financial,&quot; he said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;