Kitui County Commissioner Boaz Cherutich has cautioned politicians against taking advantage of the unfortunate death of former mayor Martha Mwangangi to incite the public and play partisan politics. Mr Cherutich mourned the late Mwangangi as an icon of sustainable development who contributed a lot to the welfare of the society. Speaking to The Standard, the commissioner said politicians should rise above the narrow partisan politics by refraining from turning sad incidences into vote-seeking platforms and popularity contests. &quot;The matter will be investigated conclusively and necessary action as per the law taken. The driver of the fateful county government fire engine was immediately arrested and detained. He will be arraigned in court on Monday to answer to charges of careless driving and causing death,&quot; Cherutich said. He ordered the Criminal Investigation department (CID) to be take lead and unearth circumstances that led to the crushing of late Mwangangi and the involvement of police in the demolition of the traders&#39; structures. Cherutich said the matter would not be taken for granted and that no stone would left unturned until the truth was unveiled. &quot;We want to know whether the law was complied with when the kiosks were being vandalised. Were there any court order(s) to the effect? The untold story will be put into bear after thorough investigations,&quot; the commissioner said. ALSO READ: I saw truck crush my dear friend to death, says Charity Ngilu He said it was wrong for demotion of structures to be effected if laid down procedures and law was not followed to the letter. The late Mwangangi and former lands CS Charity Ngilu were in a group of traders who were demonstrating against demolition their kiosks by the county government. As Mwangangi and Ngilu addressed the demonstrators, the fire-fighting engine was driven into the crowd and it ran over the former mayor and crushed her head and stomach. Ngilu escaped death by whisker after her aides shoved her out of the harm&#39;s way.