Master Ephy Irungu Kamau from Good Shepherd Academy, Kerugoya in Kirinyaga County was among the top performers in this year&#39;s KCPE examination. He scored 422 marks. (Photo: Munene Kamau/Standard)&nbsp; Academic giants in Mt Kenya region kept up their good showing in this year&#39;s KCPE which also saw an improvement by public institutions. By the time of going to press, Caroline Gatwiri Gitonga, who registered an impressive 434 marks out of the possible 500 at the Freds Academy, was the leading light in the region. Leading the public school pack was Karatina DEB Primary School in Karatina, which produced the second best girl in the country in Mwangi Karen Wangui who scored 433 marks. Other public schools that had candidates with more than 400 marks include, Nyeri Primary and Tetu girls all in Nyeri while from Murang&#39;a, Vidhu Ramji Primary and Technology Primary School posted good results. Others were Kathigiri, Kathituni, Tuale and Musa Gitau primary schools. READ MORE Coast giants remain top but average score dips How Ministry concealed plan to release KCPE exam results Uhuru praises Matiang'i on credible KCPE results Usual performance In private school category, giants like Nyeri Good Shepherd, Mt Kenya Academy, Snowview Complex and Hillstead School were the top performers in Nyeri. In Tharaka Nithi, Gitonga Hilda Kathure of Chogoria Girls posted 431 marks while Muthiani Mutheu Renee of Mwimbi Boarding got 425 marks Elsewhere in the neighbouring Meru, Freds Academy and Meru Salem Academy emerged top, while in Kiambu Juja Preparatory School, Githunguri Township Primary School and Kiambu Hillcrest Primary led. In Murang&#39;a, Bishop Kairu Academy and St Paul Thomas Academy had candidates among the top performers. Impressive marks Kirinyaga had Good Shepherd Academy, Efforts Junior Academy, and Jufred Academy, Tenri Primary, Lions and St Peters. Across the region, there were spontaneous celebrations in schools with impressive marks, with most of them caught off guard by the announcement of the results. It was song and dance at Nyeri Good Shepherd where its top candidate scored an impressive 427 marks. The same was replicated at Mt Kenya Academy whose student Lewis Mutwiri Ndiga got 429 marks. At Freds Academy in Meru, there were celebrations as the school continued to post impressive results as it has done in previous years.