Banjul: Gambian leader Yahyah Jammeh, who vowed to rule the tiny West African nation for &quot;a billion years&quot;, was handed a shock election defeat on Friday 22 years after seizing power in a coup. The electoral commission head declared Adama Barrow president-elect on state television, with 45.5 percent of the vote against Jammeh&#39;s 36.7 percent. &quot;Having received 263, 515 votes out of the total votes cast in the election, I hereby declare Adama Barrow newly elected to serve as president of the republic of the Gambia,&quot; Alieu Momarr Njai said. He earlier told reporters in Banjul that Jammeh would concede, although he has yet to make a public statement. Barrow also told Reuters by telephone on Friday he was expecting a phone call from Jammeh conceding defeat. Defeat and a concession from Jammeh would be momentous. Earlier this week he said that his &quot;presidency and power are in the hands of Allah and only Allah can take it from me&quot;, and on one occasion even said he would remain in office for &quot;a billion years&quot;. READ MORE Haiti presidential election winner vows anti-graft, food security push I will build a better Somalia, says presidential candidate Said Abdulahhi Mohammed Trump may discuss U.S. secretary of state job with critic Romney: source Voting against Jammeh was a rare show of defiance against a leader human rights groups say routinely crushes dissent by imprisoning and torturing opponents. Gambians voted on Thursday amid a total blackout of the internet and all international calls, and with land borders sealed, in a poll posing the first serious challenge to Jammeh since he seized power in a coup in 1994. He previously said he had invented a herbal cure for AIDS that only works on a Thursdays. He has also arrested hundreds of people on suspicion of being witches or wizards and threatened to slit the throats of and decapitate homosexuals. Jammeh&#39;s supporters deny abuses and he has often criticised Western powers for meddling in African affairs. Barrow, who has for the first time united and galvanised Gambia&#39;s opposition, has promised to revive the economy, whose sluggishness pushes thousands of Gambians to flee to Europe in search of a better life. He has also promised to end human rights abuses and to step down after three years as a boost to democracy.