As 28-year-old Walter Kiprono made his way into the Elite Bet offices in Westlands, Nairobi, he had an aura of new confidence and power.His brown shoes gently brushing the ground, his head held high and his broad smile lighting up the opulently furnished room, he felt he belonged where he was. After all, the Standard Seven drop-out was the newest millionaire in the country.&nbsp; The father of three from Bomet County closed the year in style when he won Sh14.5 million following his correct prediction of all 12 football matches in the English Premiere League.&quot;I used only Sh50 to play the jackpot. Who knew that money would multiply into millions? Now I believe miracles do happen,&quot; said Mr Kiprono. &quot;I recently lost my father and I believe this was God&#39;s way of showing me and my family that he will never forsake us.&quot;One Tuesday morning, Kiprono woke up and, after doing his chores, which included milking his mother&#39;s cow, he sent a friend to a nearby shopping centre to load money into his betting account.He would proceed to place bets on his favourite teams using Elite Bet, and waited for the results.&quot;I waited eagerly and could not sleep. Then I got a text the next morning saying I had won Sh75. I was elated. I ran to my brother&#39;s house and woke him up to tell him that I had won but he laughed in my face,&quot; said Kiprono.Not one to relent, he took another risk and placed a bet but only managed to win Sh204 the next day. He withdrew Sh100 and used the rest to place two separate bets on the jackpot. These were, however, unsuccessful.Kiprono was still determined to win and on Thursday, he decided to predict the outcome of 12 English Premiere League games to be played over the weekend.&quot;After placing my bet, I forgot all about it and went out drinking.&quot;But on Sunday afternoon, he began reviewing the progress of the games and noticed he had eight straight wins and needed to register four more to clinch the coveted millions.&quot;I immediately instructed my younger brother to go to the centre and watch the games from there since I had no TV,&quot; said Kiprono. &quot;I kept borrowing phones from my neighbours so I could call my brother to find out the progress.&quot;One game after another, he won until it was down to the 11th game. By then he was assured of bagging at least Sh360,000.Only one more game stood between him and Sh14.5 million - Manchester City vs Arsenal.Minutes later, Collins Kipkirui, his brother, came running to him and shouting, &quot;You are a millionaire, brother!&quot; but he dismissed it as a hoax.He opted to log on to the betting website to confirm the results and that was when he &#39;lost it&#39;.&quot;As soon as I got the confirmation message that I had won millions, I started running up and down haphazardly, not knowing how to act. My mother was concerned that I had lost my mind only to find out that I was now rich,&quot; said Kiprono.News of the latest local millionaire travelled fast and by the time he was getting home, he found his extended family gathered around and preparing a feast to celebrate the rare feat.&nbsp;