Terminally ill patients at Kenyatta National Hospital (KNH) were left in agony on Monday after 290 consultants withdrew their services.This crippled the referral hospital which had been offering some hope for the patients after services in Government-run hospitals were grounded since medics went on strike on December 5. The shade provided by a canopy of trees outside the Doctors Plaza at KNH was the only solace forStephen Jaanga. His wife failed to see a cancer specialist after the couple was informed that there would be no treatment until further notice.Seated in his wife&rsquo;s wheelchair with hands on his chin and his face partially covered by a rather old grey cap, Jaanga was left to ponder the grim reality. ALSO READ: Clinical officers in Kenya insist their strike is legal despite court outlawing other medics&rsquo; boycottHis wife was among those left stranded and all they could do was sprawl their aching bodies as they wondered what to do next.&ldquo;My wife had an appointment on January 9 but we could not wait till then. She is in pain and is still on chemotherapy,&rdquo; explained Jaanga, who had spent Sh4,500 to hire a car from Juja in Kiambu County to take his wife to be seen by a cancer specialist.Jaanga said they were at the hospital by 9am but as soon as they arrived, the nurse told them there was no doctor to attend to them.&ldquo;She just said until further notice. But we did not believe it so I went to confirm from the doctor&rsquo;s office in room 23 and found the door closed,&rdquo; he said.So far, Jaanga has spent Sh15,000 on chemotherapy alone. And sometimes KNH has no medicine so he is forced to buy it from Nairobi Hospital at extra cost.&ldquo;I have no idea where else to go. I do not have money,&rdquo; he said.MOTIONLESS BODY ALSO READ: Families struggle to come to terms with heavy losses after Naivasha tragedyMetres away, a patient emerged from the hospital being wheeled on a trolley. Beside the motionless body walked a middle-aged woman carrying huge brown envelopes clearly marked &#39;X-ray&#39;.The motionless body was covered up to the face and that got Jaanga worried.&ldquo;Is he dead?&rdquo; he asked. But I assured him that a corpse would not be paraded in such a manner.On the trolley lay Sarah Korir&rsquo;s mother. She had been discharged after two hours of being admitted on the advice of a specialist.Ms Korir said the specialist promised to attend to her only if she was transferred to a private facility before Thursday.&ldquo;She was due for an operation today but that cannot take place at KNH. I was told to rush to a private hospital at least before Thursday so we are heading to Nairobi West,&rdquo; she said.While withholding their services from KNH, consultants said they would also paralyse operations in private hospitals from Thursday. ALSO READ: Families struggle to come to terms with heavy losses after Naivasha tragedyThe majority of the 290 specialists also work in private facilities around the city.It was the same case for Benson Kariuki from Kiambu County who came armed with his X-ray images ready to seen by his doctor following a hip injury.He had been directed to have the images taken on Monday afternoon and return yesterday for a diagnosis.BEFORE THURSDAY&ldquo;I may look healthier than the people being wheeled but the amount of pain I am in is unimaginable. I have been on pain killers for two months now,&rdquo; he told The Standard.Mr Kariuki said he would camp at Nairobi Hospital before Thursday until he was seen by the doctor.&ldquo;I have communicated with the doctor&rsquo;s assistant and she said I would be booked in Nairobi Hospital,&rdquo; said Kariuki.Meanwhile, talks to have doctors call off the strike will resume today. According to sources, the talks will take place at the Ministry of Health&#39;s Afya House headquarters. ALSO READ: Kenyans crossing to Uganda for treatment as doctors' strike continuesThis is after earlier talks spearheaded by Ministry of Labour Cabinet Secretary Phyllis Kandie failed to reach a deal.Yesterday, the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union (KMPDU) led 290 consultants working at KNH in downing their tools in solidarity with the doctors.KMPDU Secretary General Ouma Oluga maintained yesterday that they would not accept anything less than the negotiated collective bargaining agreement.&ldquo;The more they keep quiet, the more Kenyans suffer. The Government has already shown that they do not care, so if it takes us 10 years so be it,&rdquo; said Mr Oluga.Director of Medical Services Jackson Kioko said the withdrawal of the consultants&rsquo; services would not paralyse KNH completely.