The succession of plains and undulating hills and ravines from Samburu to Kerio Valley makes for one of the most scenic swathes of Kenya&rsquo;s landscape and yet, tragically, one of the most dangerous terrains, too. The landscape is pristinely alluring and tantalising to the eye, teasing you with mystic and legendary beauty of the brilliant morning after creation day. The topography speaks of heavenly and surrealistic beauty that leaves you gasping for breath, glad that you made this journey. Who knows whether you will ever come this way again &ndash; or ever go elsewhere after this mission, for that matter? For life in this idyllic territory tends to border on a covenant with death. Many have been dastardly killed in this place, gone and forgotten, as if their lives counted for nothing. It is a treacherous terrain, a veritable valley of the shadow of death. Beneath the idyllic veener of a lovers&rsquo; safari paradise is a catalogue of tragic events, fully loaded with pain and suffering, for the locals and visitors alike. Loss of limb and life, violent displacement of populations and a sense of utter hopelessness is the order of life in a landscape of incessant cattle rustling, murder and mayhem. Successive governments have issued edicts against the criminal menace that informs life here, yet none has shown the capacity to end it &ndash; less still the will. The Standard on Sunday today reveals to you the shocking killings that have been reduced to statistics by a society that seems to place little premium on human life. ***** In just four years, at least 962 people have perished at the hands of bandits in Samburu, Baringo, Elgeiyo Marakwet and West Pokot Counties, making the valley a cosmos of death, where marauders raid with abandon. Their target is livestock in these sprawling killing fields. In their wake they leave behind a shocking trail of destruction of limb and property. The bandits not only kill the harmless residents, they also turn their guns on the security personnel. READ MORE Security camps everywhere, but no peace for residents Arrest volatile situation in Turkana State silent as bodies rot after deadly Pokot-Turkana clashes A litany of blunders Despite the unending waves of pillage, the murder and the mayhem, Government has often been conspicuously missing in action. Where it is present, it has been feeble. You could argue that there is the occasional guard, armed with his AK47. But what is the worth of this solitary individual before the redoubtable and heavily equipped merchants of death? In a sense, the scanty security personnel in the vicinity seem to have come here on a mission to die. Their fate and that of the ordinary citizens is tied up in a tragic gordian knot. Both lots are akin to an antelope frozen squarely in the blinding headlights of a powerful car. So, where is the real Government, the full force of the law? Once in a while you have heard orders and ultimatums. You hear high sounding threats that speak of intent, but they fizzle away as the person pronouncing them drifts back into slumber. That is until the next round of violent depravity jolts them to sound yet another round of hollow proclamations that will go the way of all such edicts. ***** Last week, 14 people were killed in Lomelo, at the border point of Baringo County and Turkana County. It was continuation of normal business in the treacherous scenic valley, now aptly dubbed valley of death. Early in the year, 10 people were killed in two raids, in February and March. One incident was in the Endo Village in Baringo and the other one at Nabwel Nyang Village, in Samburu North. During the attacks, hundreds of livestock were herded away. Right on cue, Baringo County Commissioner, Peter Okwanyo, gave the local chiefs an ultimatum of two days. They were to find and arrest the culprits. One of the suspects was believed to have been involved in the murder of yet another person in Kapedo. This is the norm; this is the way of life. The catalogue reads like a spectacle from hell. On January 9, 2013, one person was shot dead and another one wounded in Arabal area, after heavily armed bandits attacked the villagers, forcing more than 3,000 people to flee from their homes for safety. Come February 4, 2013, six people &ndash; among them three police officers &ndash; were shot dead after they clashed with suspected raiders in the cattle rustling prone Ng&rsquo;aratuko area in Bartabwa Division of Baringo North District. The gang of 300 heavily armed Pokot raiders was said to have surrounded an isolated village in Kaptir and terrorized the residents before leaving with over 2000 heads of cattle and 500 goats. The attacks continued in the Kiserian area of Baringo South, where four people were shot dead on 25 October , 2014, after bandits staged succesful raids along the shores of Lake Baringo. The attack, believed to have been perpetrated by Pokot bandits, came just a day after three General Service Unit (GSU) officers were killed at Cheptuimet area on the Chemolingot-Kapedo Road. Pokot bandits were suspected to have carried out the attack. They also torched a police vehicle.Two civilians, among them a female employee of Tullow Oil Exploration Company, and a teacher, who had hiked a lift in the ill-fated vehicle, were also killed and their bullet ridden bodies left to decompose in the scorching sun. Fresh hostilities On December 7, 2014, a retired senior sergeant, Peter Kokon, who represented Kenya several times in the Commonwealth Games, was waylaid by armed bandits. They shot him before setting his vehicle on fire. The killings sparked fresh hostilities between the Tugen and Pokot communities, with residents fleeing the area, fearing revenge attacks after the killing of the former soldier. Thousands of livestock were stolen and property worth millions of shillings destroyed. On June 6, 2014 cattle rustlers invaded Makutuni, killed two people and fled away with over 200 cattle. Behind them, two houses were already in flames. The incident, coincidentally, happened after a ten-day ultimatum issued by Tiaty MP, Asman Kamama, for the more than 1,000 livestock allegedly stolen from pastoralists from his constituency to be returned. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;