There was jubilation at Moi Primary School Kabarak, Nakuru after the school registered an excellent performance in this year&#39;s KCPE exam. The school produced one of the top students with 429 marks. Muchiri Mike Mwaniki apart from scooping the first position, led 86 candidates in breaking the school&#39;s performance record by hitting a target of 389.69 mean score away from last year&#39;s 385.67. SONG AND DANCE Jubilant staff and parents broke into song and dance at the school after the institution set a new academic record since its inception. Led by the school acting headmaster, Nelson Kiptoo, teachers and a section of parents expressed their gratitude to God through victory songs. READ MORE KCPE performance drops as stringent steps to curb cheating bear fruit 2016 KCPE exam results out Examinations agency tells Kenyans to expect drastic reduction in number of As Similar celebrations were replicated across homesteads around, with the champions showered with gifts and praises. Despite losing their longtime and best head master Joseph Odhiambo, a few days to the exams, the 86 boys and girls made history and recorded an impressive four-point performance improvement from last year&#39;s means score. The second highest candidate, Fundi Brian scored 420 marks; 31 candidates scored 400 marks and above. &quot;It is impressive and the best improvement in the institution&#39;s history. This achievement is a true reflection of the teachers, parents and candidates hard work,&quot; said the acting head teacher. At Sauroki Naretu&#39;s parent&#39;s home at Kabarnet farm in Rongai, everything came to a near standstill as relatives and friends streamed in to congratulate the 14-yearold girl for the hard work. Naretu scored 408 marks, something she described as &#39;unexpected.&#39; &quot;This is better than my previous expectation, this year; the examination environment was not like previous years. Despite the stringent measures laid down by the Ministry, we have proven our competitors wrong,&quot; said the girl. The only daughter in the family of three said her eyes is fixed on women rights related issues after completing her secondary and university education. &quot;Disheartening news of women and girls being raped and defiled is something I want to fight after school,&quot; she added. While appreciating her daughter for the impressive results, Isaiah Sauroki confessed of not expecting such a performance and promised to take her and the entire family for a Christmas trip out of the country. &quot;We are going to celebrate these results in a unique style. It is a great achievement and we as a family are going to support the girl all the way to university,&quot; said Sauroki. Sun and Shield Academy, which is on its fifth year sitting KCPE exam, is emerging as another academic giant in Nakuru County. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;