Key projects in many constituencies were abandoned when former MPs lost their seats even after millions had been pumped into them. The projects now lie idle and taxpayers are unlikely to get value for money even after millions of Constituency Development Fund cash was splashed on them. New MPs have not been keen to complete projects started by their predecessors over the years, leading to wastage of public resources. CDF committees had set out to build police houses, dispensaries, classrooms in schools, bridges, offices, sink boreholes and even erect sheds for the jua kali artisans. However, only monuments can be seen after the after the projects were abandoned. Some of these projects were abandoned over a decade ago, according to the Auditor General&#39;s report. Gatundu North is one of the worst hit constituencies with Sh129 million having been pumped into development projects for the past 13 years. READ MORE From boda boda sheds to fences, the crazy things MPs spent our money on 273 lawmakers looted Sh4 billion from CDF kitty in one year MPs want action on CBK staff over collapsed banks However, the projects that have to do with schools, dispensaries, water resources and security have stalled and no more money is being disbursed to complete them. The report found out that the local CDF committee abandoned these projects and despite the fact the auditor has been raising queries year-in, year-out, there is no evidence of any action being taken to complete the projects, meaning the Sh129 million was wasted. In Bomet Central, the value of stalled projects is Sh57.8 million while those of Bomet East is Sh68.6 million. &quot;Non-funding of projects to completion may result in total abandonment and hence wastage of public funds,&quot; the Auditor General said in his report. In Limuru Constituency, the Kamirithu jua kali sheds started in 2009 have stalled despite having gobbled up Sh17 million. &quot;Physical verification further showed the works were poorly done and the total cost of the project appeared excessive compared to the work done,&quot; the auditor said in his report of September 2015. In Baringo North, CDF managers paid double the required amount but even so, the work stalled and the project is incomplete. The job was to build an x-ray room at the Kabartonjo Health Centre. The CDF committee hired a valuer who estimated the cost of the job at Sh2 million, but the management disbursed Sh4.5 million for the project &ndash; an extra Sh2.5 million the required amount. In Nairobi&#39;s Westlands Constituency, the CDF team set out to build the Mau Mau Police Post in Kangemi at a cost of Sh3 million. The problem was the site they identified is on riparian zone, where buildings are prohibited. Although Sh3 million has already been spent, the auditor warned the Sh500,000 in the CDF account earmarked for the project is likely to be wasted because the project is likely to be demolished at some point. In Homa Bay Town, an assistant chief&#39;s office was mooted in 2008/2009 and Sh100,000 spent on the construction of a substructure. But no more money has been pumped into the project all those years and the project stands incomplete. &quot;The project has stalled and is of no value to the public in the current state,&quot; the auditor said. In Masinga, Sh200,000 was pumped into Kiseuni Dispensary to build and equip two rooms. The project was three-quarter-way complete but the CDF committee starved it of cash. It was impossible for the auditor to tell if there is hope of completion and whether the taxpayer will get value for money. Nyairoko Dispensary in Ol Kalou stalled seven years ago after it was starved of funds. The budget was Sh4.7 million, but it was only given Sh400,000. It was &quot;abandoned and no work was ongoing&quot; when the auditor did a site inspection. Some Sh13.4 million worth of projects have stalled in Kangundo. The money was for 13 classrooms in a technical college (5), a secondary school (4) and a primary school (4). A girls&#39; secondary school also needed the library completed, but the projects has stalled and no time-frame had been given on when they will be completed and neither are there plans for additional funding. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;