Former President Daniel arap Moi has commended the Government for sealing loopholes that perpetrate cheating in national examinations. Moi said Kenyans deserve high standards from all education institutions. &quot;As citizens of Kenya and stakeholders, we recommend the highest possible standards to be shared by all education institutions from nursery school to the highest levels. Government efforts to monitor the recent national exams and block loopholes to exam cheating are commendable,&quot; he said. In past years, cheating was rampant in KCPE and KCSE examinations. However, Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang&#39;i has put in place measures to curb the vice, with this year&#39;s conduct of the national examinations hailed as a success. For the first time in the history of exams, during the release of KCPE results early this month, Dr Matiang&#39;i said there were no cases of cheating and cancellation of the exams. ALSO READ: Form One selection to begin today Moi however, said Government effort to curb cheating in exams was just a tip of the iceberg as malpractices in the education sector are yet to be eradicated. &quot;Poor quality education is very dangerous to our country, and is not a laughing matter,&quot; he said. The former President, who was presiding over the 12th graduation ceremony of Kabarak University on Friday, called on the Government to ensure public universities reflect the national image of the country in all undertakings and offer credible education. An audit carried out by the National Cohesion and Integration Commission revealed that public universities had become incubators of ethnicity. The report showed majority of staff come from the same tribe as the vice chancellors, principals or the locality of the institutions. Moi, who is the Kabarak University Chancellor, said he founded it with a vision of developing the finest graduates for Kenya&#39;s intellectual and development market. &quot;In my thoughts, I never had room for sub-standard or half-baked graduates coming from Kabarak. I also never visualised a university of mass production where quantity supersedes quality,&quot; he said. ALSO READ: School fees shock for parents He added, &quot;As I stand here today, I have every reason to thank God that this dream has come to pass, and those we are awarding today, are among Kenya&#39;s very best, in their field of study.&quot; Deputy Vice Chancellor Administration and Finance Henry Kiplagat challenged the graduands to utilise their skills to remain relevant in the job market and transform society. &quot;I challenge today&#39;s graduands to properly utilise the skills they acquired over time from Kabarak University to remain relevant in the job market and introduce meaningful societal change. I wish them all the best in their future enterprise,&quot; Dr Kiplagat said. Present during the graduation were Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and his West Pokot counterpart who is also the university&#39;s chairman John Lonyangapuo. Prof Lonyangapuo thanked the Government for continued support to the institution and particularly sponsoring students to undertake various courses. &quot;The Government sponsored students have already fitted into the system and are doing very well. We believe this support will continue in years to come,&quot; he said. ALSO READ: Form One selection put off to Tuesday next week