The planned construction of a Sh1.2 billion gated community near Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi is set to start in early 2017 with the developer saying the projects is attracting strong interest from home buyers. The gated community, dubbed Lancet Village, is the project of Lancet Housing Cooperative Society, comprising staff members of Lancet Kenya, the largest independent medical laboratory service provider in the country. The first phase will be finalised within two years.Lancet Sacco Chairman Patrick Were said the project is attracting strong interest in the market due to its prime location at Katani area of Mavoko Municipality in Machakos near Syokimau, approximately ten minutes&rsquo; drive from JKIA and Syokimau Main Railway Station.He said buyers also expect significant value appreciation of the property amid ongoing infrastructural developments along Mombasa road including the Standard Gauge Railway. &ldquo;Other notable ongoing infrastructural developments include constructions of Katani Road Phase II, constructions of Mlolongo-Katani-Kamulu Link Road and the proposed upgrading of Mombasa road,&rdquo; he said.december offerThe first phase will have 84 units of two and three-bedroom apartments, 106 units of four-bedroom maisonettes, a commercial area and kindergarten. According to the developers, so far, all two-bedroom apartments are fully booked, as well as a most of the three-bedroom units at 80 per cent. The four-bedroom maisonettes costing Sh10.5 million will be put up for sale from December 3, with an offer of 10 per cent discount for bookings made during the month of December. Were said the initial plan for LancetVillage was to put up 200 units made up of two-bedroom and three-bedroom apartments in the first phase and another 200 apartments in the second phase.However, he said, following requests from potential buyers, maisonettes were incorporated in the first phase. &ldquo;Due to the delays occasioned by the changes in the design, groundbreaking will now be in early 2017 and not November 2016 as was earlier anticipated,&rdquo; he said.CEO of Lancet Group of Labs Dr Ahmed Kalebi said the project was launched to enable Lancet staff members and other Kenyans own their own homes at reasonable rates.The design of the gated community includes landscaped surrounding with generous use of trees and shrubs, private lush gardens, green recreational areas and children&rsquo;s play gardens.The commercial area will include restaurant, mini-market, medical clinic, salon, barbershop, gym, swimming pool and kindergarten.Social amenities within the surrounding of the project are Katani Primary School, Katani Secondary School, Brigida Morello Girls Secondary School, Divine Word Boys High School, St. Joseph&rsquo;s Integrated Primary School, St. Francis Catholic Church and SFS Integrated Primary School.