Kenya loses about Sh600 billion annually to corruption, double the amount the National Government sends to our counties. The figures from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission should shock every Kenyan of goodwill into sustained and decisive action against corruption.While the three arms of Government must drastically step up their efforts to root out corruption, it is incumbent on Kenyans to demand action from the person that they see in their mirrors. Kenya has more than 30 million Christians who subscribe to the teachings of Christ. The narrow path that Jesus Christ championed is a constant choice of right over wrong. President Uhuru Kenyatta has on numerous occasions placed what he believes to be the right solutions on the table. Kenyans must similarly offer concrete anti-corruption solutions so that the country can keep extracting right from wrong.Indeed, followers of Jesus Christ must always strive to do the right thing however difficult that may be. Among these followers are 21 Bishops from East Africa who this week congregated in Kabarnet town to be conferred Honorary Doctorates by University of America. My father, Bishop Dr David Nguli Kalua was among the honourees.My father hails from Tungutu village in Kitui County, an area fondly referred to as the village of Bishops. This is because it has produced powerful clergy that include retired Anglican Archbishop Dr Benjamin Nzimbi, the late Catholic Archbishop Boniface Lele, Anglican Bishop Dr Ngangi Mutisya and Episcopal Church Bishop Dr Kavuku Kimwele. ALSO READ: Anglican Archbishop Wabukala's work at EACC cut out for himSuch men of cloth across our nation irrespective of their denominations should continue being men of integrity who must be on the forefront of fighting corruption far beyond the pulpit. They must treat corruption like the spiritual cancer that it is and consequently provide moral leadership that fights corruption in a strategic, consistent and widespread fashion.In this regard, it is fitting that Archbishop Dr Eliud Wabukala, the immediate former head of the Anglican Church of Kenya, has been nominated by the President to head EACC.Kenya&rsquo;s 30 million plus Christians must also follow suit and not just speak out against corruption but be corruption-free themselves. One powerful way that Christians can fight corruption is by transforming the upcoming elections into values based elections.Since integrity is a critical value, Christians have a chance to eject corrupt leaders as they elect men and women of integrity. The Church leadership can help in developing an integrity scorecard that will help Kenyans to pinpoint leaders whose lives are anchored in integrity.Leaders are a reflection of the people they lead. If Christians methodically build their lives on the integrity that drove the life of Jesus, they will elect men and women of integrity who will lead the country in a mammoth fight against corruption and protect the billions that we are losing to this vice. This Christmas let us be reminded that, money saved is money earned. Think green, act green!