The exact route of the second phase of the Standard Gauge Railway has not been identified,&nbsp;the Kenya Railways Corporation (KRC) has said. The corporation warned that there were unscrupulous people lying to the public about the route of the railway with the intention of getting kickbacks. KRC Managing Director Atanas Maina urged Kenyans to be wary of such individuals, adding that they were placing beacons before KRC engineers had drawn the route. &quot;No one knows where the route of the second phase of this project is. Once the design is done we will make it public,&quot; he said during a consultative meeting for residents of Kajiado, Kiambu, Narok and Nakuru counties in Mai Mahiu, Naivasha. Mr Maina said that just as they had done in the first phase, residents who own land on the line&#39;s border would benefit from projects as part of the company&#39;s corporate social responsibility. ALSO READ: Tragedy as fire kills elderly woman and her five grandchildren in Kilifi &quot;We will build schools and dispensaries for communities affected by this project the same way we did with communities living along the Nairobi-Mombasa line,&quot; he revealed. &quot;The company will also arrange a tour for the communities here to areas where we have established such projects during construction of the first phase,&quot; he said. During the meeting, Ruth Nairosua, a local leader,&nbsp;claimed that herbs the community used would be destroyed by the project, adding that they would seek compensation for this. She said they have relied on the herbs for healing and divine purposes for decades, and called on KRC to make sure the herbs were not interfered with. Elizabeth Wanjiru from Nkoroi Welfare Association in Kajiado said the corporation was keeping them in the dark. &quot;We have invested heavily where we live and because some houses will have to be demolished, we need to be told what the process of compensation will be,&quot; she said. Speaking at the meeting, Elijah ole Koilel, a community elder&nbsp;from Narok, called on KRC to ensure that compensation was done before the project began. &quot;We live on land that does not have a title deed while some of our houses are manyatta and cannot be compensated in the same way as permanent houses in other areas,&quot; he said. ALSO READ: Diplomacy best bet in city SGR route row