The war of words between allies of Deputy President William Ruto is causing discomfort within the Jubilee Party&rsquo;s rank and file in Rift Valley.Public exchanges among Jubilee legislators in the vote-rich region are now seen as a threat to President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s re-election vehicle even before party primaries begin. Political jabs between Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter and his Kapseret counterpart Oscar Sudi worry local leaders, with fear rife that the name-calling could deepen rifts in the otherwise undisputed Jubilee stronghold.Jubilee has been under pressure from Kanu and Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto&rsquo;s Chama Cha Mashinani (CCM), which have lately intensified activities in the region with the aim of slicing away the support the ruling coalition enjoys, especially in the South Rift.Murkomen, Keter and Sudi have been trading accusations publicly over alleged gossips taken to the Deputy President meant to demean them and give their rivals an edge. They accused Murkomen of misusing his closeness to the DP to sow seeds of discord. ALSO READ: Residents smear human faeces on Jubilee office in KisiiIt all started last week when the DP announced that Jubilee MPs who had fallen out with him including Keter and Sudi had been pardoned and were welcome back to the party.What followed was a vicious attack by the MPs on Murkomen and Majority Leader Aden Duale, whom they claimed had been misleading Ruto.&ldquo;We are asking the senator to clear his name first over the National Youth Service (NYS) scam before lecturing other leaders on how to conduct themselves. He should also desist from invoking the name of the DP all the time,&rdquo; said Sudi. A law firm associated with Murkomen has been adversely mentioned in relation to the NYS scandal.As the war of words escalated, President Kenyatta&rsquo;s advisor Joshua Kuttuny warned that unhealthy competition would cost Jubilee votes in the region.&ldquo;The sibling rivalry over who should be close to daddy (referring to Ruto) is dangerous because it might cause more divisions,&rdquo; he said. Kanu Secretary General Nick Salat predicted tough times ahead for Jubilee in Rift Valley.&ldquo;What is spilling out is just but the beginning. We are yet to see the eruption of the volcano. Its just a matter of time. Those enjoying the trappings of power are now in a panic mode ahead of 2017 and Kanu will be there to receive them,&rdquo; he added.Analysts now say the differences between local leaders in the region may require the personal intervention of Ruto. However, Murkomen maintains Keter and Sudi are a liability to Jubilee Party. ALSO READ: 2022 politics will 'sabotage' President Uhuru's re-election bid&ldquo;This is the team that was recently pardoned. In fact, the DP had forgiven them and given the firm instructions to behave,&rdquo; he said.Marakwet West MP William Kisang said they will not allow divisions to deter President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s re- election.&ldquo;The DP has no role in uniting the leaders. As legislators, we shall not allow his efforts to go in vain,&rdquo; he explained. But Bureti MP Leonard Sang downplayed the rifts, saying it will not jolt JP in the region.Pundits foresee Kanu and Chama cha Mashinani making a big resurgence as they stand to benefit from the fallout and confusion in the Jubilee leadership.Walter Chesang, a political analyst, said the recent development is an indicator of a crisis and frustration in the Kalenjin nation because of disconnect between the upper and lower political levels.&ldquo;The insults traded by our leaders are motivated by reality that at higher political levels, there is no direct contact. People close to power have emasculated information flow making the grassroots scatter like flock without a shepherd,&rdquo; said Chesang.Two weeks ago- at a women&rsquo;s group- fundraiser in Baringo, Murkomen clashed with his Baringo counterpart Gideon Moi, Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto and Emurua Dikirr Johana Ngeno over what he termed as &lsquo;sustained political attacks on the DP by the three. ALSO READ: Furore witnessed in Jubilee branch elections akin to 2007 PNU debacleSenator Moi, Governor Ruto and Ngeno are some of the leaders from the region who have come out openly to fault the DP over various issues affecting the region.&nbsp;