NAIVASHA: Five prisons in the country failed to get their full KCPE examination results following an anomaly in one of the papers. The prisons affected were Naivasha, Langata, Kisii, Kitui and Kericho where the over 200 candidates who sat for the national exams didn&#39;t get their results for the Kiswahili paper. The prison joined a list of schools in the country which have failed to get part of their results with the ministry promising to address the hiccup by next week. Speaking on phone, the officer in charge of Naivasha GK prison Patrick Mwenda said that they were in darkness over the issue. He said that they were seeking more information from the ministry of education over the issue that had affected the morale of the inmates. &quot;There was no reported anomaly during the examination period and we are not sure why the inmates have failed to get the results for their Kiswahili paper,&quot; he said. READ MORE KCPE examination had no leaks or cancellations KCPE performance drops as stringent steps to curb cheating bear fruit Jubilation as Moi Kabarak emerges top again Mwenda said that based on the results from the other subjects, the inmates had performed well compared to last year but they had to hold their celebration until the impasse was resolved. In a message, the Kenya National Examination Council (KNEC) assured all affected students that the anomaly would be rectified by Friday next week. &quot;The XX in your results means that there is a query that we are resolving and this will be done by the 9th of December,&quot; read the message in part. And in Kanyugi primary school in Kinangop, parents threatened to go to court after the students also failed to get their English paper results. The irate parents accused an invigilator for the anomaly noting that the problem occurred after he dropped the papers in a pool of water. Sixty eight candidates from the school that is located near Engineer town failed to get their results with KNEC calling for patience. A parent Jane Wamuyu said that they were in darkness over the issue with efforts to seek information from government officers hitting a dead wall. &quot;We are planning to go to court and seek justice as the government officials have failed to tell us what the problem is,&quot; she said. Nyandarua South sub-county education officer Joseph Ngojo said that there were also waiting for the official communication from KNEC. &quot;We have raised the issue with the examination council and we are waiting for their directive before passing it to the parents,&quot; he said.