For a second time, violence characterised yesterday&#39;s Special Sitting of Parliament to discuss amendments to the Election Laws (Amendment ) (No.3) Bill, 2015.It was clear that the majority party, Jubilee, was keen to force through the contentious amendments after CORD blocked it on Tuesday. The heavy presence of the police inside and outside Parliament and the haste with which the amendments were passed reinforced that feeling. At the heart of the acrimony is the feeling that the amendments (to reintroduce manual voter verification should a technical hitch arise in the Biometric Voter Register) goes against the spirit of a Parliamentary Select Committee set up in the wake of weekly anti-IEBC demonstrations in May. To CORD legislators, introducing the amendments hardly six months after they were passed and signed into law is not only illegal, it is also a betrayal of sorts.Yesterday&#39;s violence, unfortunately, did not limit itself to legislators alone, it was meted out to journalists too and even the Judiciary. The intimidation of professionals legally going about their duties is unfortunate and unacceptable. The media were not only barred from covering the proceedings in Parliament, a journalist was assaulted by the police inside Parliament and his camera confiscated.Moreover, Aden Duale, the Leader of Majority&#39;s threat to High Court Judge, George Odunga over a matter in court was to say the least, reckless and uncalled-for. Mr Duale is no different from the menacing policemen holding a cocked gun to journalists. For the media and the Judiciary are institutions critical to advancing and securing our democracy and those like Mr Duale who threaten them should be treated as enemies of democracy. ALSO READ: Jubilee pushing country to the brink, says rebel MPThough CORD has done the right thing by going to court, they have indicated they will go back to the streets starting on January 4. And therein lies the rub.Street protests like the one that led to the formation of the Select Committee in June will only polarise an already divided country especially as the country readies itself for the 2017 elections. Protests disrupt social life, businesses and rarely do they end without unnecessary loss of life. They must be avoided by all means.Rather than promote the chaos and the vindictiveness that is expected after it forced through the amendments, the ruling Jubilee coalition should demonstrate a sense of shared national interest. The events following the contested results in the 2007 General Election (where 1,300 people were killed and thousands maimed and hundreds of thousands others were displaced) offer sobering lessons: that a mismanaged electoral process can lead to death and destruction and even sink a country; that all parties in an electoral contest must have confidence in the process if the outcome is to be believed and accepted.To cure that and restore the trust and confidence in elections as an integral part of our democracy where the majority have their way and the minority have their say, the politicians, especially President Uhuru Kenyatta, should be ready to bend backwards.Mr Kenyatta has another chance to demonstrate steady leadership and a firm resolve to keep the country united. He knows too well that an arrangement that doesn&#39;t take into account the divergent opinion of others is counter-productive and dangerous. Any move he makes must ensure that the centre holds for the sake of the country and for the sake of democracy.