EXPERT: My name is James Nderitu and I am an ardent reader of Smart Harvest. I am an animal health practitioner and have tackled various topics on small holder dairy farming on this platform. Today, I want to write about calf feeding.The primary concern in rearing the newborn calf is to ensure it remains healthy. Feeding management should also be directed at addressing nutrient requirements and encouraging rumen development. While designing a calf feeding programme, the aim should be to reduce mortality rate while maintaining a growth rate of about 400-500g per day. The growth rate will vary with breeds. For the bigger breeds the aim should be to wean calves at two to three months at approximately 80kg body weight.Phases of calf feedingThe aim should be to switch young calves to cheaper feeds as early as possible so that more milk can be available for sale. However, the diet must promote health and growth. While developing a calf feeding programme, the following factors should be considered;1). The calf has low immunity at birth and must therefore be given colostrum. The colostrum has antibodies that protect the calf against diseases from the mother and their absorption is highest within 12 hours after birth and very low after 24 hours.As such, the calf must suckle colostrum immediately after birth and if necessary, it should be given using a nipple bottle. The calf depends on the colostrum antibodies for about two weeks when it develops its own immunity. If new animals are introduced into the herd just before calving, it may be necessary to vaccinate them against common diseases so that they can develop antibodies and pass them on to their newborn.2). The newborn calf is dependent on milk for nutrition and growth in its early life as the rumen is not functional. The suckling reflex forms a fold (groove), which serves as a pipe for delivering milk straight from the oesophagus to abomasum in young calves (bypassing fore-stomachs). Therefore, young calves should only be fed on liquid diets as the groove will not allow solids to pass through.3). Calves secrete high amounts of lactase enzyme (breaks down lactose in milk to glucose and galactose to supply energy).The other carbohydrate digesting enzymes are low; therefore, milk, which has a high lactose level, should be fed to the calves. During formulation of milk replacers, the energy source should be milk lactose. Calves have no sucrase enzyme, and should not be fed on sucrose (ordinary sugar).4). Since the rumen is not functional, the calf cannot synthesise the B vitamins and they must be supplied in the diet. The diet of the newborn calf should contain milk proteins since enzymes to break down complex proteins do not develop until seven to 10 days after birth.5). Introduce calf to solid feed. As calf is introduced to solid feed, the rumen starts developing and the calf can be weaned as soon as it can consume enough dry feed -- 1.5 per cent of body weight. It should be noted that dry feed should be introduced early, as solid feed is required for rumen development. Grain-based diets promote faster growth of rumen papillae, which promotes rumen function, compared to roughages.Calf feeding methodsThere are several methods that can be used for feeding depending on ease and convenience.Single sucklingThe calf is separated from the mother, but during milking it is brought to suckle. The amount of milk the calf consumes is difficult to quantify. Some farmers will allow the calf to suckle one quarter. This method is rarely used in commercial dairies. The disadvantage is that if the calf is not present, then the cow may not let down all the milk. This method is the best in terms of hygiene as the calf gets clean milk at body temperature.Foster mother or multiple suckling In farms where several cows give birth at the same time, one cow can be assigned to a number of calves depending on milk production. The calves suckle in turns, ensuring that each calf only suckles the designated quarter. This method is not practical in small-scale farms.Nipple sucklingA plastic nipple is attached to a clean bottle filled with milk and the calf is trained on how to suckle from it. An alternative is to attach a nipple on a short plastic hosepipe and insert the same into a bucket. The calf is then trained on how to suckle. This method is the best, as it helps you to measure the amount of milk fed to each calf.Bottle feedingThe milk is placed in a clean bottle and the calf is fed directly from the bottle. This method is tedious and slow if many calves are to be fed. There is a high likelihood of milk going to the lungs via trachea.Bucket feedingThis is the most commonly used method and milk is placed into a bucket and the calf is trained to drink by place a finger in the milk and as calf suckles your finger it takes in milk.Stainless steel buckets, where available, should be used for hygienic reasons, as plastic buckets are difficult to clean. Whatever method is used, clean equipment should be used at all times. Sick calves should always be fed last to minimise cross-contamination. Attempts should be made to feed milk at body temperature, especially during the cold season.For more information, contact me on 0713713396&nbsp;