&nbsp; NAIROBI: President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday recognised the role played by Jaramogi Oginga Odinga and other founding fathers in building Kenya&rsquo;s strong foundation. &nbsp; In his Jamhuri Day national celebrations speech at Nyayo National Stadium, President Uhuru recognised the role played by his father Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, Masinde Muliro, Tom Mboya, Makhan Singh, Paul Ngei, Bildad Kaggia and Achieng&rsquo; Oneko. President Kenyatta said even in the darkness of colonial slavery, the founding fathers and mothers were united. ALSO READ: Uhuru vows to punish NYS looters &ldquo;Patriots like Jomo Kenyatta and Jaramogi Oginga Odinga; Masinde Muliro and Paul Ngei; Bildad Kaggia and Achieng&rsquo; Oneko set aside their differences, and joined hands to overthrow the colonial order. In their unity, they were indomitable. In our disunity, we are defence-less,&rdquo; said Uhuru. He went on: &ldquo;This was Kenya&rsquo;s first age of heroes, and we who come after them should always remember what a precious gift they left us.&rdquo; FOUNDING FATHERS He cautioned Kenyans against tearing apart what the founding fathers achieved. President Kenyatta was chided on October 20 for failing to mention Opposition chief Raila Odinga and his late father Jaramogi among those who fought hard to liberate the country. Mashujaa Day, which is marked on October 20, is meant to celebrate people who have done great things for the country. Mama Sara Obama, the grandmother of US President Barack Obama, was feted at Mashujaa Day celebration held every October 20. ALSO READ: Kenya celebrates 53 years of independence with more challenges She is remembered for taking in care of Barack&rsquo;s father when his real mother passed on. During the 2016 celebrations at Machakos Stadium, President Uhuru honoured Muindi Mbingu, Paul Ngei, Koitalel arap Samoei, Chege wa Kibiru, Jomo Kenyatta, Gamal Abdel Nasser, the late Mutula Kilonzo and Governor Kivutha Kibwana among many others. Uhuru also failed to honour trade unionist Tom Mboya who opened education opportunities for Kenyans with the &lsquo;education airlifts&rsquo; to foreign countries.