Members of the public at the scene where a lorry lost control ramming into twelve other vehicles before bursting into flames in Laini in Naivasha along the Nairobi-Nakuru highway. Thirty-three people including three police officers died in the accident that left scores of others seriously injured. (PHOTO: ANTONY GITONGA/ STANDARD)Those who witnessed Saturday night&rsquo;s tragic accident paint a picture of a harrowing scene that caught everyone unawares. They narrated how screams suddenly rent the air at 9.30 pm as the last business people closed their premises at Laini trading centre.James Wainaina said he had just closed his shop and was heading home when he heard a loud bang. This was immediately followed by huge fireballs that lit the skies - &nbsp;a Canter truck carrying inflammable materials had hit several cars in traffic before bursting into flames.&ldquo;Soon after, the smell of burning flesh and car tyres started&nbsp;filtering into the air as most of the people who had been trapped in the cars unsuccessfully fought to free themselves. Things happened too fast as a lorry heading to Naivasha from Nairobi crashed into several vehicles,&rdquo; Wainaina said.He said vehicles were thrown in all directions as screams of those trapped inside the wrecks pierced through the still night.&ldquo;There was little I could do. I remember how one man who was burning tried to run away from the wreck only for him to collapse a few metres from his car and died trying to put out the fire,&rdquo; said the trader.At the scene, along the busy Nairobi-Nakuru highway, 13 cars full of bodies could be seen. Some of those who had come to find out what was happening could not stand the sight of the bodies and had to flee from the horrific scene.The screams died slowly as the victims painfully took their last breaths even as the fire continued to spread fast to other vehicles. &ldquo;Those of us who arrived at the scene were unable to assist the victims because the flames were just too dangerous,&rdquo; said Wainaina.He added: &ldquo;The lorry was carrying inflammable glue used to fix shoes. The lorry burst into flames after hitting the other vehicles.&rdquo;Tears freely flowing from his eyes, Wainana narrated how the stood at a distance, helpless, as he watched the close to 40 people consumed by the fierce flames.&ldquo;We could not get near the scene as the fire was very intense and the few who survived were thrown out of their vehicles,&rdquo; Wainaina said.Agatha Waithera, who arrived minutes after the accident described the scene as akin to a horror movie.&ldquo;I watched as people burned to death. Some tried to escape but they were overwhelmed. They collapsed outside their car before they were consumed by the flames,&rdquo; said a shaken Waithera.She said firefighters arrived nearly two hours later. Their vehicle could not access the scene due to a major jam on the highway.And yesterday morning, pungent smell filled the air as residents and motorists struggled to come to terms with the aftermath of the accident.The trading centre, just a few kilometres from the scene of the accident, was littered with shattered glasses and charred car shells. Bodies, burnt beyond recognition, and personal belongings, were also scattered at the scene before they were removed.One of the vehicles, a saloon car carrying a woman and her children, was found eight metres away from the scene.By midnight on Saturday, Kenya Red Cross officials and security agencies had counted 30 bodies. However, the official report now puts the death toll at 39.Other witnesses said the lorry, with a Ugandan registration, hit a speed bump before the driver lost control. It first hit a saloon car and a police vehicle, which was ferrying officers from Nakuru. The lorry rammed 10 other vehicles, some which were heading to Nairobi, before a huge fire broke out. The raging flames ensured residents could not save the victims.Some of those who did not witness the accident were shocked to wake up and see the damage the accident had caused, killing people and destroying vehicles.Jane Nyokabi, who lives a few metres from the highway, said the impact of the accident was deafening. &ldquo;The speeding lorry first hit a bump before crashing into a saloon car and a police car. In a split second, several cars had been engulfed in fire,&rdquo; said Nyokabi.Raging flamesShe said residents who arrived minutes later were kept off by the raging flames. &ldquo;Many people were crying for help but the flames were too intense. Yes people responded and were ready to help the victims but the fire was too much and spreading too fast,&rdquo; she said.Business came to a standstill in the area as residents trooped the scene to catch a glimpse of what had happened.&ldquo;I have witnessed many road accidents in the many years I have lived here. However, this particular one was the most horrific. It has left us in great shock. We witnessed motorists cry for help and even died yet we could do nothing to save them. It is very sad,&rdquo; said James Kariuki, a boda boda operator.The scene was also poorly secured. The police had a tough time accessing it when they arrived yesterday morning as residents had jammed it.Even the unpleasant smell did not keep off residents who continued milling around the scene. A contingent of security officers and officials from the National Disaster Management Unit had a hard time controlling curious residents who defied directions and overran the crime scene on numerous occasions.In the afternoon, crime scene analysts from the Kenya Defence Forces moved in.&nbsp;Residents lamented that many people have been losing their lives along the stretch through accidents. They said the speed bumps that have been built on the road have done little to prevent loss of lives.&ldquo;This horrific accident should serve as a lesson to the Government to take the necessary measures to end loss of lives. We have lost too many lives along this stretch already. Even with these speed bumps, we are still losing lives. We want a long-term solution,&rdquo; said a witness who only identified himself as Kariuki.