CORD leader Raila Odinga while paying a courtesy call to Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto on Saturday said Kenyans should vote out the Jubilee administration for taking corruption to new levels. &quot;Another five years for the country under Jubilee will send the country to worse situation than we are seeing now. All Kenyans of goodwill should come together and vote out Jubilee,&quot; Raila said. Raila said it was regrettable that four years down the line counties were still struggling with little financial support from the national government. &quot;With the new constitution there was need to give full support to ensure that the various region grow but it is shocking that Jubilee has done very little to ensure success of devolution in the country,&quot; Raila said. Ruto said the Cord leader paid him a courtesy call after the incident which left him with an injury after a confrontation with police at Silibwet sports ground one month ago. However, Raila said he was also in Bomet to discuss issues of common interest and take stoke of the situation in the country as like-minded leaders. READ MORE Save Kenya by voting out Jubilee, urges Raila CORD skips talks on 2017 elections and economy Raila attacks President Uhuru over oil cash sharing plan &quot;I have come to pay a courtesy call to the governor and we have discussed a lot of issues concerning the country as like minded leaders. You know the year is coming to an end and we need to take stock,&quot; said Raila. The Governor on his part said it was sad that Jubilee had muzzled independent arms of government into singing their tune and forgetting their oversight roles. Ruto said Members of the National Assembly had become sycophants and forgotten their role leaving Kenyans at the mercies of the government. &quot;The laws that had been passed to benefit Kenyans are being reversed for selfish interest by Kenyan legislatures being misused by Jubilee for selfish interest,&quot; he said. CORD leader said it was time for Kenyans to hold hands and fight to save the country from the leadership of Jubilee. Ruto hosted Raila two weeks after hosting Wiper Leaders Kalonzo Musyoka and ANC&#39;s Musalia Mudavadi and KANU chairman Gideon Moi in Bomet stadium.