Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto yesterday came under a scathing attack from Jubilee MPs who accused him of dividing the region. The lawmakers also claimed Governor Ruto was overseeing corruption in his county. The legislators were speaking during the launch of the Jubilee Party in Bomet County yesterday. Governor Ruto, who was holding a parallel rally at Ndanai in Sotik sub-county, came under intense criticism from leaders who blamed him for undermining Deputy President William Ruto&#39;s leadership in Rift Valley. The leaders who joined South Rift Jubilee presidential campaign team leader Deputy Speaker Joyce Laboso used the rally to attack the governor&#39;s development record and asked Bomet residents to reject his Chama Cha Mashinani (CCM) party. Speaking during the launch, Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen accused the Bomet county chief of using devolved funds to market his newly formed CCM. READ MORE Dida: I'll use religion to fight graft Biwot endorses DP Ruto for 2022 presidential bid Kiraitu dinner stokes fresh row in Jubilee amid defections to PNU Murkomen claimed a lot of funds sent to the county for development had been misappropriated. &quot;CORD leader Raila Odinga&#39;s visit to Bomet on Saturday is a clear indicator that Ruto will be joining the Opposition before the next elections,&quot; he said. The senator also warned Emurua Dikirr MP Johana Ngeno against continuously attacking the Deputy President. &quot;Ngeno should desist from attacking the DP because he is not in his league,&quot; said Murkomen. Laboso, who will be facing off with Governor Ruto for the gubernatorial seat, said Bomet residents were ready for a leadership change at the county level, pledging that her leadership would be inclusive and consultative. She urged all those aspiring for various seats to back the Jubilee Party even after nominations. &quot;We are ready to face off with Governor Ruto next year. From the signs here it is almost definite that we will send the governor packing and bring development to the people of Bomet,&quot; said Laboso. Kericho Senator Aron Cheruiyot also accused Governor Ruto of misusing public funds instead of using it to set up projects to benefit youths in the county. &quot;When the country set up devolution it was meant to benefit locals through provision of water, electricity and roads. &quot;However, in Bomet, those in charge of the county government have been the sole beneficiaries. The governor has been spending funds to ferry a special seat while attending county functions,&quot; said Cheruiyot. Nandi Senator Stephen Sang said Rift Valley was firmly behind President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy Ruto, dismissing claims by Governor Ruto that Jubilee was losing grip of the region. He said Raila&#39;s visit on Saturday to Governor Ruto&#39;s Tumoi home was an indicator he was willing to work with the Opposition. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;