Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi has accused&nbsp;President Uhuru Kenyatta of&nbsp;launching fake projects during his two-day tour of&nbsp;Western region. The former vice president said Western was not a place for the President and his deputy William Ruto to launch projects that would not benefit locals. &quot;All those projects launched by Uhuru were a great lie. It is bad manners for the Head of State to cheat Kenyans, especially in Western. He should not make Western grounds for failed projects,&quot; Mr Mudavadi said. During his tour, the President and his deputy launched six road construction projects, issued residents of Mt Elgon with title deeds, switched on Webuye Pan Paper Mills and commissioned medical equipment at Kakamega and Busia county general hospitals. Uhuru also launched a multi-million-shilling water project in Mumias. ALSO READ: Why Raila and Uhuru are fighting for Coast and Western Mudavadi urged Western region leaders to reject Jubilee in 2017 and support leaders who could deliver on what they promised. Speaking at Bishop Hannington Cathedral in Mumias during an ordination ceremony yesterday, Mudavadi drummed up support for the Opposition&#39;s National Super Alliance (Nasa). While addressing his supporters in Mumias town, there was tension following reports that some youths were planning to disrupt the rally. Uniformed security officers were spotted guarding the town after the claims. &quot;I am aware Raila Odinga (ODM leader), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Moses Wetang&#39;ula (Bungoma senator) are also looking for the presidency but I am sure we will unite in the end,&quot; he said. SAME VENUE Moments after his convoy left Mumias town, former ODM national youth leader Rashid Mohamed, accompanied by politician Stanley Livondo, arrived at the same venue to address residents. The two are supporters of Jubilee Party. ALSO READ: President Uhuru joins mourners at Dr Gecaga&rsquo;s befitting funeral &quot;Mumias is Jubilee. This is a Jubilee zone,&quot; they said as they waved to their supporters. The two rival groups almost clashed but the presence of security officers contained the situation. Mudavadi later addressed supporters at Mumias Bus Park and Ekero in the presence of police. Mr Rashid decamped from ODM early this year to join Jubilee and welcomed Uhuru to Mumias West during the Head of State&#39;s tour of the region last week. He intends to vie for the parliamentary seat in Mumias West.