President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday called on Kenyans to maintain peace ahead of next year&rsquo;s elections. Presiding over celebrations to mark 53 years of independence, the President further said: &ldquo;Let us maintain peace throughout the electioneering period. Kenya is one family, let us ensure peaceful elections that will leave our country intact. &ldquo;Kenyans will have the final say in the next elections. Winners of the elections will be determined by the achievements they have made and not divisive politics or external powers. Political competition must not lead to conflicts.&rdquo; Uhuru, who spoke at the Nyayo National Stadium in Nairobi during his final Jamhuri Day celebrations before the next General Election, also said he would accept the outcome of free and fair elections. &ldquo;We will either accept the results or challenge them using the legal means laid down for that purpose. I will accept the outcome of a democratic process. Those who win will be expected to use their offices to serve Kenyans in humility. ALSO READ: Uhuru vows to punish NYS looters &ldquo;We know members of a family never see things exactly the same way. But even when we disagree at home, we don&rsquo;t burn the house down. Fellow Kenyans, that is the story of next year.&rdquo; Uhuru exuded confidence that Kenyans would give him a second term due to his development record. &ldquo;I believe I have done what Kenyans asked me to do when they gave me the mandate to lead. I believe I have earned their support. I believe they will give me a second and final term in an open and transparent election next year. But the choice is theirs, they have the final say,&rdquo; he said. The President also alleged a plot by the international community to rig the presidential elections in favour of the Opposition. Uhuru accused unnamed foreign nations and international organisations of funding local civil society groups to influence who becomes the next president of Kenya. He said the foreign organisations were doing so under the guise of giving voters civic education across the country and warned them against what he termed &ldquo;meddling&rdquo; in the elections. &ldquo;Already, money is coming into Kenya from abroad under the guise of supporting good governance or civic education. However, its true purpose is to influence our electoral choices,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I want to caution those members of the international community taking these actions that the Kenyan people do not take them kindly. I urge all Kenyans to reject such interference. This is our country and no one should ever try to control our choices for their own selfish interests,&rdquo; the President said. ALSO READ: Uhuru vows to punish NYS looters He said Kenyans knew how to vote and asked foreign countries and agencies involved in civic education to instead channel such funds though the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC). &ldquo;If you want to help us, channel the funds through the IEBC because we don&rsquo;t want interference. Kenyans can choose for themselves who should be their president. The decision belongs to Kenyans. We don&rsquo;t want foreign powers to interfere with the people&rsquo;s choices.&rdquo; The celebrations also provided an opportunity for the President to enumerate achievements of the Jubilee government during its four years in power. He said his government had fared well in the fight against corruption besides the growth of the economy as well as education reforms. To buttress the election interference claims, the President made reference to American elections where sections of the Democratic Party had alleged election hacking by Republican candidate Donald Trump. &ldquo;In the United States, following the last elections, much has been said about potential foreign interference with the electoral process. We are also going into elections next year and we don&rsquo;t want interference,&rdquo; he said. THE HAGUE President Kenyatta also revisited the idea of withdrawing from The Hague-based International Criminal Court (ICC). The crimes against humanity charges against him and his deputy William Ruto were a key theme in the last elections. The charges have since been dropped. ALSO READ: President Uhuru set to lead Jamhuri Day fete as regime struggles to stem corruption &ldquo;We are giving serious thought to our membership in the ICC. In our pursuit of a more stable and just order, we are champions of global institutions grounded in fairness and respect for national sovereignty. The Kenyan cases at the ICC have ended but the experience has given us cause to observe that this institution has become a tool of global power politics rather than the justice it was built to dispense,&rdquo; said Uhuru. &ldquo;Our experience at the ICC demonstrated a glaring lack of impartiality in this institution. We&rsquo;ve started to see many more nations openly recognising that the ICC is not impartial. Some have withdrawn. Others have considered that step. Twice, our Parliament has passed motions to withdraw. &ldquo;We have sought changes to align the ICC to respect our sovereignty. Those changes have not been forthcoming. We will therefore need to give serious thought to our membership.&rdquo; Other than Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero, no other Opposition leader attended the celebrations.