Tuesday&rsquo;s special sitting of Parliament almost took off on a bad note.This was after Opposition legislators blocked the entrance for several hours and Speaker Justin Muturi could not access the chambers for the House business to commence. Parliament was recalled from recess after Leader of Majority in Parliament Aden Duale wrote to the Speaker asking for a special sitting to discuss several issues that included thrashing out pending issues on the Election Laws (Amendment Bill, 2015).Coalition for Reforms and Democracy legislators are opposed to any amendments, arguing that the current laws were arrived at through a negotiated agreement and cannot therefore be changed unilaterally by the majority Jubilee side.Indeed, the road to the negotiated agreement came at great cost. Weeks of street demonstrations in May that led to loss of lives and property and the disruption of business across the country compelled both sides of the political divide to the negotiating table with the setting up of the Joint Parliamentary Select Committee.The negotiated agreement embraced the use of technology, notably the Biometric Voter Registration in the identification of voters and the transmission of results to limit incidence of cheating.The Jubilee side, probably with the benefit of hindsight, think using technology alone is foolhardy. They fear that&nbsp; weak or non-existent internet coverage caused by, say, a power failure, could disenfranchise the voters. On the other, hand the Opposition insists manual voting is a recipe for vote rigging. Both sides have genuine concerns but shouting at each other is not the way forward.However, it is up to the leaders to tone down on the rhetoric that could, if not checked, create unnecessary tension in the populace. No doubt, the use of technology in the voting exercise accords the best opportunity to contain fears of vote-cheating.It would also help cut down not only on logistical costs, but the time it would take to finalise the exercise. Ironically, both sides are accusing the other of scheming to rig the 2017 elections. The use of technology should be as simple and as straightforward as the M-Pesa concept. M-Pesa, a Kenyan creation, has generated a lot of interest even in the West, where technology has taken over every aspect of life.With nearly Sh16 billion transacted daily on phone sets, M-Pesa has positively impacted the lives of ordinary Kenyans because of its wide reach. M-Pesa is secure and reliable. The success of mobile phone money is largely due to trust and that nearly all adults of voting age have or can easily access a phone.That a country that invented and embraced this technology seems unable to agree on what form of technology to use to elect its leaders is dumbfounding.For those opposed to the use of technology, citing inadequate network coverage, there is a way out. Some in Jubilee argue that at least 2,000 villages across the country, accounting for 25 per cent of the land mass, are not adequately covered by mobile phone networks.While this might be true, it would be wise to find out if there is a way out with satelite technology. Voting is a single, one-time event every five years. Surely there must be a way around the problem of coverage, at least for the election period.