Deputy President William Ruto yesterday visited the scene of the horrific road accident at Laini trading centre. The DP, who was accompanied by Energy Cabinet Secretary Dan Kazungu,&nbsp; condoled with victims and said the Government will help families that lost their loved ones in the tragedy. &quot;I would like to send my condolences to the families who lost their loved ones in this horrific accident. As the Government, we promise to help all the affected families as they go through this trying moment,&quot; Ruto said. He directed Rift Valley Regional Coordinator Wanyama Musiambo to coordinate the arrangements and ensure all families are catered for without fail. He also called on motorists to remain extra-vigilant during the festive season, saying the accident could have been prevented had the driver driven with caution. ALSO READ: President Uhuru, DP Ruto end Rift tour, accuse governor of sabotaging projects &quot;As motorists, we should be extra-vigilant to ensure such incidents are stopped. This accident was preventable,&quot; he said. Ruto said the Government plans to expand the road into a dual carriageway to reduce road accidents, which have been a common occurrence along the busy highway. &quot;The Government is planning to expand the Rironi-Mau summit road into dual carriage way. This will reduce the number of accidents along the highway,&quot; Ruto said. Meanwhile, Baringo Senator Gideon Moi condoled with families of the victims of the tragedy. &nbsp;CONTINUE PRAYING Gideon said he was saddened by the loss of lives and called on Kenyans to continue praying for the the families of the bereaved and wished quick recovery to the survivors. He at the same time urged motorists to observe and exercise caution during this festive season. ALSO READ: Bodies of Naivasha tragedy victims moved to Chiromo mortuary in Nairobi &quot;As we approach the holiday season, I beseech all road users to exercise caution and adhere to traffic rules so as to avoid loss of lives,&quot; he said. Nakuru Governor Kinuthia Mbugua also condoled with the victims and called on motorists to drive carefully during the festive season. Governor Mbugua noted the stretch had led to loss of lives for many years and asked the State to step in and reverse the trend. Transport PS Irungu Nyakera said the accident was caused by human error and ruled out road design as one of the causes.