Education stakeholders have welcomed the move by line Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang&#39;i to initiate reforms that have led to credible exam results. Both Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) and Kenya Union of Post-Primary Education Teachers (Kuppet) commended Dr Matiang&#39;i for ensuring that this year&#39;s exams reflect the true effort of pupils. Knut Secretary General Wilson Sossion said the 2016 exams has shifted focus to teachers to be directly involved in the management of the exams. Mr Sossion said the culture and perception of exams will now change, adding that securing the exams has cleared the first hurdle towards eradicating corruption in the education sector. &quot;This exam was most secure and was released in good time so that instead of parents preparing for festivities, they will now be looking for ways to send their children to secondary schools next year,&quot; said Sossion. Speaking to The Standard on phone immediately after the release of the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) 2016 results, Sossion argued that securing credible exams will improve the image of the country abroad as students from Kenya will be considered competent. READ MORE KCPE performance drops as stringent steps to curb cheating bear fruit Bungoma had most underage candidates Jubilation as Moi Kabarak emerges top again Kuppet Secretary General Akello Misori said this year&#39;s KCPE examination was not marred by irregularities as witnessed in previous years. He said the credibility of the exams has been restored, adding that previously the normal results curve was not adding up. &quot;We have seen that the credibility of the exams has been restored. Certain results were not adding up. For the first time, there is true reflection of the efforts of the pupils,&quot; said Mr Misori. Misori, however, challenged Matiang&#39;i to ensure that structures are put in place towards ensuring that exams are secured not just during his tenure as the Education CS but for future generations. He said that the fact that education directors were on the ground to supervise the examinations is a clear indication that systems have been weak. Misori, at the same time, applauded the CS for promising that from next year the Government will pay examination fees for all learners in private and public schools. &quot;Institutions can be private but the children cannot be private. This is a welcome move that all pupils sitting exams should have their fees paid by the Government. In any case, their parents and guardians pay taxes to the Government,&quot; said Misori. National Parents Association (NPA) also welcomed the results, saying that they are credible. The NPA Chairman Nicholas Maiyo said that as parents, they would not want to train their children as cheats. &quot;We don&#39;t want to train our children as corrupt citizens. We don&#39;t want to produce a fake doctor or engineer,&quot; said Mr Maiyo. At the same time he warned that care must be taken to ensure that the cartels in the education sector are wiped out for good.