The Jubilee Party interim branch elections that ended last week have sparked an uproar that threatens the ruling party&rsquo;s ability to maintain its mass party ideal in the key Mt Kenya stronghold. It was the predicament that faced the Party of National Unity (PNU) in 2007, when it was launched as retired President Mwai Kibaki&rsquo;s re-election vehicle spearheaded by incumbent MPs who went out of their way to block strong rivals from getting the party ticket. The result was that scores of new MPs sought the tickets of smaller parties and went on to defeat seasoned politicians. Among those who lost to aspirants who bolted from PNU after the primaries were ministers David Mwiraria to Silas Muriuki in Imenti North, and Mutahi Kagwe to Kabando wa Kabando in Mukurwe-ini. Other losers included Patrick Muiruri to Clement Waibara in Gatundu North, Nderitu Gachagua to Ephraim Maina in Mathira, and Petkay Miriti to Kareke Mbiuki in Nithi. The furore the JP branch elections has provoked throughout Mt Kenya is showing no signs of abating. In Kirinyaga, disgruntled members have already asked the party headquarters to consider annulling the polls while in Embu, two lists of officials have been sent to the headquarters. ALSO READ: Why MCAs skipped Jubilee polls in Meru In Meru, members of the former Alliance Party of Kenya (APK) dominated key positions in the interim office in elections held on Thursday. PUBLICLY DECLARED At least four former The National Alliance (TNA) branch officials have publicly declared that they are shopping for alternative parties. Of the top three positions filled during the party elections at Thiiri Centre in Meru town, the chairmanship went to former Igembe MP Joseph Muturia, who was elected in absentia, while the secretary&rsquo;s slot went to another former APK official and nominated MCA, Al Haji Mwendia. They are both seen as close allies of Senator Kiraitu Murungi. Governor hopeful and presidential adviser on education, Kilemi Mwiria, was among those who questioned the domination of the party office by members of the former APK. &ldquo;It is clear this is an office dominated by the former &lsquo;Bus Party&rsquo; insiders but we are confident that they have no power to bungle the primaries. We shall be on the lookout,&rdquo; said Dr Mwiria. ALSO READ: Mudavadi ticket could send Uhuru&rsquo;s Jubilee packing Igembe Central parliamentary aspirant James Mithika and South Imenti MP Kathuri Murungi also praised the peaceful elections, saying they had demonstrated the unity of purpose by JP leaders in Meru. But in the same breath, he said they were worried about the dominance of former party officials. &ldquo;The chairman and secretary positions are the most crucial in a branch and I personally wish the positions would have been shared by the members of the former two dominant parties in the branch - APK and TNA,&rdquo; said Mr Kathuri. He said the 19 party branch officials should have given one of the positions to former TNA members because the party previously had five MPs in Meru while APK had only three MPs plus the Meru senator. &ldquo;However, we welcome the new officials and advise them to work at uniting all aspirants and creating an environment that inspires free and fair primaries,&rdquo; said Kathuri. &ldquo;They must assure all members of the former parties of inclusion.&rdquo; The MP also advised the team to work hard at keeping all Jubilee aspirants in the party even after the primaries to pre-empt any likelihood of the large number of unsuccessful hopefuls contributing to voter apathy. ALSO READ: Mudavadi ticket could send Uhuru&rsquo;s Jubilee packing Dr Mithika said the party officials must not align themselves with any formations of those seeking the JP ticket so that they could be seen as capable of driving fair primaries. &ldquo;It is only fair to imagine that there will be other formations similar to Kiraitu, Kajuju and Linturi (Kikali) and all must be treated as squarely belonging to JP,&rdquo; he said. Others elected during the elections in Meru were former TNA officials Desmus Kithinji (Tigania West) as treasurer, Joshua Bariu (Tigania West) as organising secretary, Lewis Kithinji as Youth League head and Emily Makena from Buuri as Women&rsquo;s League Leader. Senator Murungi, Dr Mwiria and MPs Kathuri, Rahim Dawood (North Imenti), Gideon Mwiti (Central Imenti), Joseph M&rsquo;Eruaki (Igembe North), Florence Kajuju (Woman Rep) and Kubai Iringo (Igembe Central) were present during the elections although some aspirants claimed they had seen the same line-up of officials one week ago. But Kareithi and Dawood have welcomed the party branch. &ldquo;We decided that sharing the seats on the basis of party strength would not have worked hence our decision to negotiate,&rdquo; said Dawood. &nbsp;CONTROL JUBILEE Political analyst Martin Mukenya said squabbling to control Jubilee branches could cost many incumbents their seats, with aspirants in Uhuru-friendly parties and independent candidates benefiting from the fall-outs. ALSO READ: Rival camps in Isiolo, Marsabit agree on slots Jubilee insiders claimed the scheming was most absurd during elections in Embu and Nyeri counties where rows are still simmering. In Embu, one governor aspirant is believed to have bankrolled scores of MCA aspirants to register with the party headquarters thereby allowing them to participate in the elections. Two lists of officials from Embu eventually found their way to the JP headquarters in Nairobi. A final ruling on which set holds sway is likely to bleed the party further after gubernatorial aspirant Kiragu Kithinji announced he was quitting last week. Mr Kithinji&rsquo;s departure from JP is seen as a pointer to a possible exodus triggered by fears about the ability of the newly-elected branch leaders to spearhead credible primaries. In Meru, for example, JP has recently lost a strong parliamentary candidate in a region that has maverick voting patterns. Mithika Mwenda, popularly known as &lsquo;Mzalendo&rsquo;, who joined PNU, bolted after he fell out with a powerful Kikali insider. In Nyeri, a number of aspirants have also called on the party to disregard a list of officials from separate elections conducted on Thursday and Saturday. Close to 400 aspirants led by governor hopeful Githinji Kinyanjui have said they will march to the party headquarters in Nairobi to deliver a petition challenging the manner in which the process of selecting party officials was conducted. ALSO READ: Senator Njoroge defects to Kanu, cites shambolic polls in Jubilee party Among those who have criticised the Nyeri elections is senatorial aspirant Wambugu Nyamu who said the Nyeri branch elections were a sham and that Mutahi Kahiga, who was elected chairman, and Michael Kibicho (secretary) were aligned to a governor and senatorial aspirants. &ldquo;No elections were held at Nyeri Technical. They left us stranded and instead rushed to Golf Club and later Nanyuki where they hid to come up with a line-up. They have literally forced a team allied to Eng (Ephraim) Maina and Thuo Mathenge on aspirants,&rdquo; he said. Jubilee Secretary General Veronica Maina said in some instances, the headquarters will arbitrate to end the various stalemates. She however said that in cases where aspirants present lists of officials by consensus, they would be accepted. Laikipia senatorial aspirant Simon Mithamo also dismissed the elections where Eric Kasama (secretary) and Geofrey Githinji (chairman) were picked. In Kirinyaga, a group of leaders dismissed the Wednesday elections as a sham and demanded cancellation of the results. &mdash;Additional reporting by Alan Mungai and Munene Kamau