What takes everybody aback is the criminalisation of our politics. Kenya has become a country of vitriolic tenor perpetuated by our political class. The big question, however, is: Must our country gain the reputation around the world of being a place where the citizen is endangered if he or she expresses an idea of which a belligerent minority mob disapproves?The spirit of war has been with us for sometime now, not manifest in bullets, but in fire-spitting mouths and political invective. The Executive, needless to say, is partly to blame for allowing such a politically-charged atmosphere to exist. The President has the instruments to break polarisation in our politics. Kenyans need an unobstructed view of the controversial amendments on election laws proposed by Jubilee party members, suffice to say that the very laws were passed barely four months ago.Though Jubilee&#39;s current argument lacks the conviction present when the laws were passed. The joint select committee of the two Houses of Parliament burnt midnight oil, painstakingly delivered the proposed laws under very difficult circumstances. Without an iota of amendment, the country&#39;s National Assembly and the Senate unanimously adopted the Bills and made them operational.This scheme to alter laws few days preceding elections, present a conclusion that Jubilee had preconceived notions about suspending next year&#39;s polls, or having grey areas in the electoral process that could be susceptible to their abuse. &nbsp; ALSO READ: Survey reveals nagging problems that give Kenyans sleepless nights Kenya with a decisive win passed a new Constitution in August 2010 and promulgated it at the tail-end of the same month. Because of the gigantic leap it portended for Kenya&#39;s democracy, and the big promise it bore, as well as the joy that radiated on every face, regardless of the fact that some had opposed the new law, we called this day the birth of the Second Republic.&nbsp;We also compared the joy and ecstasy, as well as the sense of expectation hanging over Kenya to Independence Day in 1963. &nbsp;There were, however, calls on Kenyans to bear in mind the hardest part had just started, which would be entrenchment of the tablet of laws and creation of new ones to ensure full implementation. In the face of mounting opposition by CORD Coalition to any amendment of the electoral laws, Jubilee on the other hand has failed to delineate how or in what way the Joint Select Committee of the two houses erred.The opposition proclaims that their respective political parties have consistently been unafraid to point out the sound, the right and the moral ways. This view resonates with the public. If we historically chronicle the events of our nation, the final verdict is that of a resilient people. Our fore bearers took up arms and sent the British packing, as they ushered self rule. Slightly over half a century has not diminished our memory.A united nation forced a repeal of laws to embrace multi-party politics in the 90s. In 2002, a regime that had entrenched itself in power for eternity was voted out; with Kenyans emphasising that the raucous maladministration did not reflect the true spirit of Kenya. This election was dubbed the &quot;freest and fairest Kenya had held upto that point&quot;, by United Nations Development Programme in December 2003, in its Essentials No. 14. In 2007, the entire democratic edifice came to crumble, after botched elections that followed surreptitious swearing in of the former president, Mwai Kibaki, in the dead of the night. Violence followed with destruction of property and human life.Within few months after the swearing in of the grand coalition government, it was declared that the country had finally gotten over the economic depression caused by the tragedy.&nbsp;Kenya was a hustling boom-country, and was busting at the seams, which embody the consensus of our times. The story that is encapsulated is that these occasional political distractions have never impeded the progress of our nation. ALSO READ: Dubai to expose Kenyans&rsquo; hidden wealth in fight against tax evasionThe salient point which is certain and germane is that Kenyans will be eternally vigilant every single day of any presidency. Whichever regime will have to contend with the full firepower of the people at every step.Our people are ready to fight against any encroachment on our cherished freedoms and rights. When any president leaves State House, we will do the same with his/her successor as we have done throughout our nearly 60 years of existence as a Republic. The constitution and the rule of law are stronger than any one person, and we will see to that. We will never waver. &nbsp;Therefore, we must lower our voices, embrace consensus, pay credence to our Constitution and enabling laws and avoid any action that has hallmarks of taking us back to the brink of precipice.&nbsp;