Some parents and head teachers in Nyeri County are demanding action after their children performed poorly in science. Sabina Mwangi, Dorcas Wanjiku, John Kimani, Joseph Kiambati Evalyne Kainyu and Francis Mwangi accused the Kenya National Examinations Council (Knec)&nbsp;of ignoring their requests to have the science paper remarked. There are glaring differences in the marks posted by five pupils from Nyeri and St Theresa&#39;s Primary Schools. In all cases, despite the candidates posting As in the other subjects, they scored an E in science. Their parents accused Knec of dragging its feet in addressing the matter even after they wrote to the exams body and camped at their Dennis Pritt Road offices in a bid to have the matter resolved. &quot;We have been treated with disdain, indifference and finally told that they (Knec) would not look at this bizarre situation. We were told to psychologically prepare our children to accept the mark,&quot; Francis Mwangi said. ALSO READ: CS Fred Matiang'i warns school heads on fees increase They are now wary that the low mark could cost their children positions in national schools whose selection was done yesterday. The parents accuse the exams agency of brushing aside their appeals to have the examination scripts reviewed and subjecting the teenagers to unwarranted psychological anguish. &quot;Kenya&#39;s children rely on Knec to test their abilities and as such the handling of examination should be beyond reproach to avoid the destruction of the self confidence and potential of candidates,&quot; Mr Mwangi said. When contacted, Knec denied having turned anyone away, saying that they had set up a desk to specifically deal with issues arising from the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education results. They urged those affected to be patient while their concerns are addressed. &quot;We are working on them. It can&#39;t be done as quickly as expected. We have resolved some of the issues raised but still have a reasonable number pending that we will resolve as soon as possible,&quot; a Knec official told The Standard. But the angry parents are now threatening to move to court to compel Knec to remark the scripts. &quot;These results have lifelong implications on the lives of the children. If it means that we will have to go to court then we are ready to do that,&quot; they said. ALSO READ: Annual church youth camp turns tragic as KCPE champion, girl die in Migori They further want Knec to ensure their children&#39;s marks are corrected and they secure admission to the schools they selected.