Opposition leader Raila Odinga has warned of change of guard in the country&#39;s leadership in the next polls, citing runway corruption. In his Jamhuri Day message, Raila, who seemed to be targeting President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto, said the latest wave in Africa where voters have rejected sitting presidents is a sign the continent is fed up with poor leadership. Raila said the electorate is no longer entertaining leaders who are not committed to fighting graft and were determined to minimise inequalities. He said failed leaders were being punished at the ballot by voters. &quot;Africans seem to be tired of corruption and are looking for leaders who will fight it openly and honestly. ALSO READ: Me defeated? No way! Gambia President Yahya Jammeh retracts his earlier decision to accept defeat &quot;They understand that the key to fighting corruption is a president or a prime minister who is genuinely committed to eradicating the vice; who commands the confidence of the people; and is prepared to lead from the top,&quot; said the former premier. &quot;President Uhuru&#39;s administration has been riddled with major scandals involving billions of shillings in the last four years in office. &quot;From the Sh1.6 billion National Youth Service scandal, the Sh250 billion Eurobond proceeds, to the latest Sh5.3 billion scandal at the Health ministry, the Jubilee administration has failed to inspire confidence that it is committed to fighting graft,&quot; he added. Raila cited polls in Ghana, Gambia, Nigeria, Senegal and Cote d&#39;Ivoire where polls were free and fair and the electorate voted out the incumbents. &quot;It was also important that credible elections took place in Nigeria, Ghana, Senegal and Cote d&#39;Ivoire. These developments renewed hope for democracy and good governance in Africa,&quot; said Raila. He said Ghana had done it again by throwing out an incumbent after one term. &quot;Of interest to me was the fact that citizens rejected a coup in Burkina Faso early this year. Nigeria elected President Muhammadu Buhari, making him the first opposition candidate to defeat a sitting Nigerian president through the ballot, and the defeated incumbent, Goodluck Jonathan, conceded defeat,&quot; he added. Raila said the transfer of power in the continent was sending signals to the rest of Africa that citizens have endured so much pain and betrayal. ALSO READ: Raila's new drive targets Rift's 3.7 million votes He said the electorate will no longer allow another era of single-party dictatorship, presidents for life and unconstitutional stays in office. And he asked Gambian President Yahya Jammeh to vacate office after a defeat by Opposition leader Adama Barrow who won the polls. He described the new wave as the continent&#39;s &quot;Second Coming&quot;. &quot;The difference between Africa&#39;s Second Coming and the Second Liberation is that, unlike the Second Liberation, Africans themselves drive this Second Coming,&quot; he said. &quot;This Jamhuri Day, the wind of change is blowing across Africa.