Ever since Uhuru Kenyatta was declared the winner of the 2013 presidential election amidst cries of foul play by losers CORD who claimed the election outcome was stitched up, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) has remained at the centre of our politics. CORD&rsquo;s petition challenging Uhuru&rsquo;s election in 2013 was thrown out. Since then, the Opposition embarked on a mission to have the electoral commission purged of commissioners it deemed incompetent and corrupt. Weekly street battles and the demonstrations dubbed &lsquo;every Monday siege&rsquo; on the electoral commissions Anniversary Towers offices forced President Uhuru Kenyatta to bend over backwards and allow for the change of law to permit the commissioners to leave office before serving their full terms. The setting up of the Joint Select Parliamentary Committee aimed at making the process smooth and acceptable to both sides of the political divide. That would also guarantee the commissioners left office peacefully after the law was amended and a severance package agreed on to compensate for the remainder of the time they would have served, theirs being a constitutional office. Yet even after Parliament allowed the setting up of a panel to select new IEBC commissioners, the efforts to get a new commission were thrown into disarray after the initial list of contenders failed to meet the cut, forcing the panel to re-advertise the positions afresh. But all said and done, it is not the delay to pick new office bearers that is a threat to the 2017 elections. The voters&#39; register appears to be the new battleground. The Opposition maintains IEBC has several voter registers, but the Government and IEBC discount such claims. ALSO READ: Order on civic education donor funds in Kenya misleading Following IEBC&rsquo;s announcement that KPMG would audit the voters&rsquo; register, the political temperatures have risen. CORD have indicated they will be going to court today to challenge the selection of KPMG as the firm to audit the voters&#39; registers, arguing it lacked the expertise to do so competently. Parliament has been recalled to meet tomorrow for a special session to thrash out pending issues on the Election Laws (Amendment Bill, 2015) and the approval of the Election Campaign Financing Regulations, 2016 among other urgent issues. Ideally, that should form the discourse in the political arena. The political players should deploy positive energy into the sticky points to avert a crisis as elections draw near. Time is of the essence. The position adopted by CORD may not be the best at the moment. Sobriety must prevail. Both sides must talk to, not at each other. CORD should reconsider its outright rejection of audit firm KPMG to peruse the voters&rsquo; register. There is more to be achieved through dialogue than grandstanding. Another round of grandstanding will only throw the country into another round of acrimony yet the memories of the 2007/2008 post-election period are still fresh in the minds of many. After the fights and needless deaths, dialogue solved the impasse. The need for a level playing field that guarantees the 2017 elections will be free and fair cannot be gainsaid. However, that gets lost in the cacophony of noise from the political class keen to advance its own interests. Having let the country down before in 2007/08, politicians should not be allowed to do it again. ALSO READ: Defections, court battles and violence rock Jubilee elections