Christmas has come early for KCPE candidates who have bagged places in national schools. In Vihiga, Mululu Primary School is celebrating sending 50 pupils to national schools. The school had 193 candidates who sat the examination. The school&rsquo;s head teacher Eboso Kihima said he was happy with this year&rsquo;s Form One selection. &ldquo;Our school has continued to perform well...and we are glad when our students pursue their dreams from their schools of choice,&rdquo; Mr Kihima said. Mululu&rsquo;s top student, Gordon Kamunge, who scored 416 marks, will be joining Kamusinga Boys, while the second candidate, Gari Amadi, 415, will head to Maranda Boys. In Bomet, top performers secured slots at Alliance Girls High School. Abigael Cheptoo from Chelsa Academy who scored 422 marks will be joining the prestigious girls school. ALSO READ: Accommodate those who fail KCPE, KCSE Grace Chepchirchir another top girl who also scored 422 marks has been admitted to Kenya High School. Gerald Kiplangat from Tenwek Boarding Primary School who scored 422 to become the top boy in the county has been selected to join Alliance Boys. Kiplangat is joining the prestigious national school alongside Dan Kipngeno from Chelsa Academy who score 418 marks. Others who have been selected to join Alliance Boys are Gideon Kipruto (416), Ian Kiptoo (416) and Amos Kipkoech (411) all from Chelsa academy. Kericho Primary school headmistress Nancy Cherono expressed joy after 15 other candidates from the school were admitted to various national schools. But the Form One selection was a disappointment for Chepseon Complex Boarding primary school in Kipkelion East constituency after 14-year-old Leonard Kipsigei Korir who scored 419 marks was admitted to Kamusinga Boys High School. &ldquo;We believe that cluster three is what was used to place prospective Form One students in various secondary schools. How is it that none of our former pupils was selected to join a national school?,&rdquo; the school head Sofia Kurgat asked. She said they had hoped that the orphan would join Alliance where he could get a chance to study through sponsorship. Some candidates said they were picked to go to schools they did not choose. Ian Githinji from Naivasha Boys cried after he was selected to join Murang&rsquo;a High school, a school he said was not among his choices. ALSO READ: Angry parents demand action from Knec for low KCPE marks