Eight former MPs including Opposition chief Raila Odinga are on the spot after the Auditor General&rsquo;s report exposed fraud during their tenures. The report shows millions of Constituency Development Fund (CDF) cash was lost through inflated contracts, overpayment and fictitious advance payments for dubious projects. Auditor General Edward Ouko has named Lang&rsquo;ata, Gatanga, Kipipiri, Kangema, Kacheliba, Voi, Galole, Lurambi and Aldai as constituencies where a lot of money was lost. MPs are de facto chief executives of constituencies and have the final say over implementation of projects. During the term of the 10th Parliament &ndash; between 2008 and 2013 &mdash; CDF money in these constituencies was misappropriated and records of fraudulent deals still litter their books of accounts. There were fraudulent deals involving three companies and the Co-operative Bank of Kenya which cost CDF Sh21 million during Raila&rsquo;s tenure as Lang&rsquo;ata MP and the mastermind was a CDF employee. READ MORE Treasury mulls fresh bond issue as it seeks Sh152b to patch budget deficit Millions wasted as MPs abandon crucial CDF projects Don't re-elect Jubilee come 2017, Raila tells Rift Valley &ldquo;The fraud was perpetrated by a CDF employee between January 1, 2011 and April 30, 2012,&rdquo; reads the report signed on May 2015 and has just been made public. &nbsp;CASH BOOK Also, bursaries to needy students in the then constituency that covered Kibera slums were not paid on time. Cheques worth Sh1.3 million for the financial year 2011-12 were &ldquo;unpresented&rdquo;, ran stale, were not recalled and were not written back to the cash book, the audit says. The auditor wants the current CDF management to put in place &ldquo;internal controls to detect and prevent such cases from recurring&rdquo;. Later, Raila served as Prime Minister. The current CDF in Lang&rsquo;ata, now under Mr Joash Olum, is also indicted over Sh26 million worth of &ldquo;unauthorized payments&rdquo;. At least Sh4.6 million, the auditor said, &ldquo;did not have the payee details and the purpose for which the amount was paid could not be confirmed&rdquo;. Kangema CDF officials awarded a Sh16.3 million contract for construction of a library when the late John Michuki was area MP. Later, in what the auditor calls &ldquo;unclear circumstances&rdquo;, the cost rose to Sh19.4 million. &nbsp;NEW CONTRACTOR In 2010, the contractor was paid the full amount and &ldquo;terminated&rdquo;. After that, the CDF management went to the Murang&rsquo;a District Works Officer for fresh costing of the library. The officer gave a new Bill of Quantities putting the cost at Sh30.4 million. In 2011, a new contractor was identified and awarded a Sh13.9 million deal. Michuki who served as Internal Security, Transport and Environment minister died in February 2012. When the auditors visited in late 2014, the work had been completed and the contractor paid Sh12.9 million. The total amount spent on the library is Sh32.2 million, nearly double the initial contract. The Government financial regulations allow only variations of up to 15 per cent. &ldquo;It is therefore not possible to confirm whether the CDF got value for money on the project,&rdquo; says the auditor&rsquo;s report. Former Information minister and Kacheliba MP Samuel Poghisio began building an office in Alale in the 2010-2011 budget. The contract was given out in June 2010 at Sh10 million. The office should have been completed by May 2011.&nbsp;In October 2010, the contractor was paid Sh3 million. Then in his first year, the new MP Mark Lomunokol&rsquo;s CDF paid Sh2.32 million and in August 2014, it paid Sh4.4 million which works out to Sh9.72 million or 97.2 per cent of the contract sum. When auditors visited in December 2014, the construction was halfway done, having been delayed by 43 months. The remaining balance of Sh280,000 is not enough to complete the project. Also, the 10 per cent retention fees was not withheld meaning there is a risk money may be lost in case of defects or incomplete works. CDF management has not explained the omissions. Former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth is also on the spot after his CDF managers paid Sh1.2 million for a funeral gear, just five days to the expiry of the term of the 10th Parliament. The money was for a hearse, trolley and lowering gear. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;