Teachers will no longer force teenage students to undergo pregnancy tests if a new Bill is passed by Senate. And even with irrefutable proof of pregnancy, they will have no right to inform parents or guardians without express permission from the affected girl. The two provisions are contained in the Care and Protection of Child and Parents Bill, 2016, which confers more rights to thousands of young schoolgirls who fall pregnant every year, while clipping powers arbitrarily exercised by teachers. Under the new Bill, school administrators must seek the girl&#39;s consent before picking a telephone to relay news of a positive pregnancy test. Although the administrators are compelled to refer a suspected pregnancy case to a health institution for tests, the affected girl cannot be forced to accept such tests. &quot;Where the principal of the institution of basic education is of the opinion that the child may be pregnant, the principal shall refer the child to a health institution for a medical examination and such other health examination as may be necessary to determine the status of the child... A child shall not be compelled to undergo a medical examination where she refuses to undergo the examination,&quot; reads the proposed law. READ MORE Study: Young mothers at higher risk of stroke Boost as county gives Sh10m to girls' school You have failed this teenage girl, Kenyan judge tells society &quot;The management of an institution of basic education shall not inform the parents or guardians of a child who, while in the institution, falls pregnant unless the child has been consulted on the matter,&quot; the Bill states. The Bill is sponsored by nominated Senator Elizabeth Ongoro and is expected to be introduced in the Senate for debate. Schools that expel or suspend pregnant teenagers have been put on notice with a requirement that the girl will continue attending classes and participating in all school activities &quot;for as long as possible prior to delivery&quot;. And schools will take responsibility if the girl is subjected to any form of ridicule or mistreatment from peers. &quot;The management of an institution of basic education shall not exclude a child who falls pregnant while in school and shall put in place enforceable rules and such other mechanisms to ensure the other children within the school do not mistreat or in any way discriminate against the child,&quot; the Bill reads. It also compels school heads to readmit students when they are in a position to resume their studies, and reiterates the parents&#39; responsibilities towards their pregnant daughters. It proposes the establishment of county care centres where children born of teenage mothers will be taken care of as the girls continue with their education.