Kenya&#39;s education system is ranked top in Africa, President Uhuru Kenyatta has said. The Head of State listed education as among the gains registered under his administration. &quot;Today, Kenya&#39;s education system is ranked the best in Africa, and 30th in the World and we are still improving,&quot; he said. He listed abolishing of examination fees, introduction of digital learning in primary schools and increasing access as some of the gains realised under his administration. He said all children in Standard One to Three will have access to digital learning devices starting from January next year. ALSO READ: President Kenyatta: We've pumped in over a trillion shillings to support devolution Uhuru said the Jubilee government is determined to take digital learning to every corner of the country. &quot;Our children will take their place alongside those from the richest nations,&quot; said Uhuru. This means that contrary to the notion that only Standard One children are targeted under the digital learning programme (DLP), the next two levels of learning will also benefit. Speaking as he marked the 53rd Jamhuri Day celebrations, Uhuru said his administration is determined to deliver. &quot;Digital learning may be new, but our pursuit for this new modern way of learning is true to the principles for which our fathers fought,&quot; he said. Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang&#39;i announced last month that some 83,000 teachers will have been trained on ICT by the end of December. &quot;We are training 12,000 more teachers and we hope by December we shall have attained the targeted numbers for this year,&quot; Matiang&#39;i said. ALSO READ: President Kenyatta: We've pumped in over a trillion shillings to support devolution The consortium of Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology and Positivo BGH-a joint venture between Positivo Inform&aacute;tica Brazil and Argentina BGH- won the tender alongside Moi University and JP SA Couto-a South African firm- to deliver the Jubilee promise to primary school children. Some 1.2 million tablets will be distributed by end of the year. Further details of the programme show that some 3,000 Kenyans will be employed once a local assembly of the tablets kicks off.