Honda Motor Company is banking on Africa to fuel the growth of its motorcycle segment as Southeast Asian markets near maturity.The Japanese firm sells more motorcycles than any other company in the world. It holds 35 per cent of the global market for motorcycles, and sold 17 million units last year. Honda projects to sell a million more this year. Vietnam, India, Thailand and Indonesia are the firm&rsquo;s &lsquo;motorcycle strongholds&rsquo;, where Honda enjoys first-mover advantages. However, these markets have started showing signs of saturation.&ldquo;We don&rsquo;t expect much expansion in these markets,&rdquo; Shinji Aoyama, the company&rsquo;s chief operating officer for motorcycle operations, told Business Beat last week.He was in the country to scout for business expansion opportunities. ALSO READ: Act on South Sudan&ldquo;We believe there&rsquo;s room for the motorcycle industry to expand in Africa. There is huge potential,&rdquo; he said, adding that two-wheelers &mdash; particularly as boda bodas in Kenya and okada in Nigeria &mdash; are popular, but the penetration rate remains low.Africa accounts for only about 1 per cent of the firm&rsquo;s total global sales. It sells an average of about 3.5 million to 4 million units, with Nigeria and Egypt taking the largest share.Stiff competitionIn most African countries, Honda faces stiff competition from Chinese and Indian brands.&ldquo;We are trying to eat into the market,&rdquo; Mr Shinji said, but Africa remains a challenge.The firm got a late start, which has seen it struggle to catch up with Indian and Chinese rivals. Honda first entered Africa in 1981 when it built a factory in Nigeria, but business has been slow.In 2013, the firm made its foray into Kenya with a knock-down assembly plant, where imported parts are assembled into the final product. But it faces competition from Indian manufacturers like TVS Motors and Bajaj Auto, which are popular due to their low prices. Honda markets itself as having more durable machines. ALSO READ: Stop reckless talk on South Sudan KDF troops withdrawalIn Kenya, the Japanese firm sells about 12,000 units, mostly supplied from its assembly plant.&ldquo;We are in position two or three in terms of market share,&rdquo; said Isaac Kalua, the chairman of Honda Motorcycle Kenya.&ldquo;We project to sell about 20,000 units next year.&rdquo;The assembly plant has the capacity to make 100 units per day.Motorcycle sales in Kenya are estimated to have hit 120,000 units last year and are projected to rise to 200,000 next year.&ldquo;We will continue to introduce more models and work towards localisation to make our models more affordable,&rdquo; Shinji said. The firm plans to start a training centre for riders and dealers to increase the uptake of its motorcycles in the country.The COO added that aside from competition, the other challenge in the continent is the devaluation of currencies in Nigeria and South Sudan, which has affected sales. ALSO READ: Pulling Kenya&rsquo;s troops out of South Sudan is reckless