NAKURU: Fear has gripped residents of Gilgil after thugs raided the home of a former KDF officer and hacked him to death in unclear circumstances. Using machetes, the thugs attacked the officer in his home near Wellspring schools and later dragged the body in a nearby road where they left it. The deceased in his late 30s was living alone at the time of the incident and the motive behind the beastly attacked was not known as police moved in to investigate the murder. According to a witness Joel Kimani, the body which had deep cuts in various parts of the body was found by members of the public. &quot;The officer who has been living in this house for some years kept to himself and the heinous murder has left us in fear,&quot; said the witness. ALSO READ: Nakuru woman brutally killed for turning down marriage proposal A senior police officer who declined to be named confirmed the incident adding that investigations had started though no arrest had been made. The officer said that they were working with their KDF counterpart in informing the relatives adding that the body had been taken to the Gilgil mortuary. &quot;Some household goods were stolen during the incident and we are yet to identify the motive behind this murder,&quot; said the officer. Meanwhile, a group of soldiers on their way to Gilgil from Nairobi escaped death narrowly after a truck they were driving in was involved in an accident near Naivasha town. The lorry carrying 30 armed soldiers lost its breaks as it drove downhill near Raini centre along the Nairobi-Nakuru highway before ramming into some trees. There was a moment of panic as the speeding lorry with its lights on forced motorists out of the road before the driver maneuverer it into the bushes. A witness, James Kabono was full of praise for the driver who managed to control the lorry without hitting any motorist or pedestrian. ALSO READ: Police killed 12 people in 175 protests in the last 11 month: Agency says Kabono added that all the lorry&#39;s tyres were deflated after it left the highway and into the bushes where it was stopped by some trees. &quot;We praise the brave driver who controlled the lorry away from the main highway thus averting a fatal accident,&quot; he said. Kabono called for speed bumps in Ihindu area along the same highway noting that this would help address the high number of accidents in the area.