Ann Rose Wanjiru, a nurse, prays for patients in Narok County Hospital. [Photo: Robert Kiplagat/Standard] For the past one week, nurses have been out in the streets demonstrating to demand for better pay. But one nurse at a Narok hospital defied the directive to keep off work and reported to her work station daily. Unlike her colleagues, Ann Rose Wanjiku has been waking up and heading to Narok County Hospital every morning not to dress the patients&rsquo; wounds, but beseech God to heal them. In the hospital deserted by both doctors and nurses, Wanjiku moves from ward to ward giving hope to the unattended patients through prayers. ALSO READ: No usual bustle as KDF doctors take over Kenyatta National Hospital Patients who spoke to The Standard said the nurse&rsquo;s prayers keeps them going during this difficult period. One of them Mercy Sirma, 35, from Ololulung&rsquo;a said the nurse visits her every day she went to the facility with chest pains. Relieved of pain &ldquo;She (nurse) has been visiting my bed every day since I was admitted a week ago. She prays for me and through her, I feel relieved of pain as I believe God takes the pain away,&rdquo; she said. The mother of four complains that her close relatives, including her husband, has never visited her in hospital. Wanjiku, who has served as a nurse for 32 years confessed that she cannot stand the sight of patients lying in pain with no one to assist them. &ldquo;When I pray for them, I feel relieved. Had I been on official duty, I could have attended to them or get someone to assist them but the best I can do now is pray for them,&rdquo; she said when The Standard found her doing her &ldquo;ward rounds&rdquo;. ALSO READ: Stop insults and negotiate with striking health workers in Kenya Her dedication towards patients was increased tenfold last year after she fell ill and was admitted to hospital. &ldquo;After the pain I underwent that time, I promised God that I will carry out my job professionally and always help those who are struggling in hospital in any way possible despite the low pay,&rdquo; she said.