National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale has sensationally claimed that Opposition chief Raila Odinga plans to rig the 2017 polls using the electronic system. Duale claimed Raila is working with an American-Canadian&nbsp;identified as Michael Yard to hack into the system of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) and defeat incumbent President Uhuru Kenyatta. Duale also accused the former premier of meddling too much in the operations of the electoral agency and asked him to choose whether he wants to be a competitor or he wants to work in the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC). &quot;We have reliable information that Raila is planning to rig the 2017 elections with the assistance of a foreigner,&quot; claimed Duale. Accompanied by a host of Jubilee leaders at the party headquarters yesterday, Duale said the National Assembly will reconvene tomorrow to amend the electoral laws recently passed to allow the poll agency use an alternative mechanism in case technology fails. ALSO READ: Raila&rsquo;s costly slip of tongue on ICC And now the Jubilee administration has written to IEBC to table a list of organisations funding its operations and by how much. &quot;We have this morning (yesterday) written to IEBC to give us a report on the organisations that have been funding them. We believe Raila is using foreign countries to ascend to presidency,&quot; said Duale. However, the Opposition argued that the law was passed after consultation between the political divide and nothing has changed since the law came to effect to warrant a change. The proposal to amend the law barely four months since it was passed after a protracted battle on the streets is now being opposed by Opposition lawmakers. The draft amendment states that&nbsp;IEBC shall put in place an alternative and complementary mechanism for identification and transmission of election results that is simple, accurate, verifiable, secure, accountable and transparent. &quot;The commission shall use the alternative mechanism referred to in sub-section 8A for identification and transmission of election results only where the technology initially deployed fails,&quot; reads part of the proposed amendment. Duale, also Garissa Town MP, said Raila hounded the Issack Hassan-led agency out of office because he had sensed defeat. ALSO READ: Another stalemate on IEBC is uncalled-for, time&rsquo;s not on our side He said the former premier had a history of disbanding the electoral commission. Duale said outbursts by the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy about the electoral agency is an indication of panic.