Kenya has received a major boost on the war against terror, after the United States of America donated eight helicopters that will be used in ferrying soldiers and medical and casualty evacuations. Friday, US Ambassador Robert Godec handed over six Bell USA Huey II Helicopters to Defence Cabinet Secretary Ms Rachael Omamo in an event that was held at Laikipia Air Base in Nanyuki. &quot;The extra two helicopters will be delivered by May 2017,&quot; said Omamo who also hailed Omamo noted that the full donation of eight helicopters is worth US$109 (approximately Sh11 billion). The Bell rotorcrafts were used in the Vietnam War in 1960s, but have now been upgraded to Huey II which is an upgraded version of Bell UH-1H multi-mission, medium-lift helicopter, designed and manufactured by Bell Helicopter, a subsidiary of Textron. According to Kenya Air Force Commander Major General Samuel Thuita, the choppers have been improved from the original version to make them enhanced. &quot;The Bell Huey II is a known platform in the aviation industry, and especially in military operations,&quot; said Thuita. READ MORE Al Shabaab plans to attack PSV vehicles, border areas in Kenya Mandera traders funding Al-Shabaab, officer warns Government admits having intelligence over latest Mandera terror attack Thuita who also attended the event said the choppers are efficient in enemy assault operations and they allow rapid deployment of troops and also perform well in medical and casualty evacuations. According to a helicopter pilot Ms Lieutenant Nismat Mutua who briefed Ms Omamo on the helicopters performance, the helicopters can ferry up to three casualties on each side of the chopper, a medical personnel on the centre and two crew members. &quot;They can also carry up to 13 passengers which makes it efficient in deployment of military personnel in battle grounds,&quot; said Lt Mutua. The helicopter is recommended for troop transportation into high altitudes, medical evacuation in hot conditions or transport to and from remote bases. Experts in the aviation industry describe as one that provides a flexible, economical, high performance medium helicopter solution. During the event, Godec appreciated the role played by Kenya in promoting regional peace, noting that USA is a proud partner in the war against terrorism. &quot;When US President barrack Obama visited Kenya last year, he assured that Kenya and the US will stand side by side in the war against terrorism. The US also offered joint training with Kenya Defence Forces, which is aimed at strengthening military operations in Kenya,&quot; said the Ambassador. Godec further noted that his government will also provide accompanying spare parts and training on the use of the helicopter to KDF personnel. &quot;The USA/Kenya military operations are crucial in maintaining peace in Africa. We are committed to combat violent extremists especially the Al Shabaab. We are pleased to make this contribution to promote both Kenya and regional peace,&quot; said Godec. Omamo hailed the cooperation between Kenya and the USA, noting that in June 2016, the two partners launched combat search and rescue operations at the Laikipia Air Base. &quot;These are invaluable assets and they come as a complete package of assault which we are grateful of,&quot; said Omamo. During the event, guests were treated to a tactical air show of the choppers conducted by Majors Symon Buuri and Daniel Awuonda and Captains Elisha Lagat and Walter Mwaniki. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;