Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang&rsquo;i has warned that he will deal firmly with school heads ignoring the fees guidelines set by the ministry. Dr Matiang&rsquo;i maintained that no student should be charged more than what is stipulated in the circular for fees guidelines. According to fees guidelines gazetted in March 2015, fees for boarding schools was pegged at Sh53,554 per year. Boarding fees alone was set at Sh32,385 while for special schools it was capped at Sh37,210 annually. The rates are exclusive of government subsidy of Sh13,000 per child, per year. Speaking yesterday during the launch of the Form One selection at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD), Dr Matiang&rsquo;i directed regional and county directors of education to take firm action on principal increasing school fees at will. ALSO READ: Top KCPE candidate to join Starehe Boys Centre In particular, the Education CS singled out a school in western region which had increased fees by Sh46,000 and the principal had told parents that he was still consulting the ministry. &ldquo;We had issued school fees guidelines and we expect all school heads to comply. Where a principal thinks that fees should be increased, they are allowed to make formal requests backed by the Board of Management with minutes taken to that effect,&rdquo; said Matiang&rsquo;i. An agitated Matiang&rsquo;i warned that any school head found exceeding the fees guidelines limit will be dealt with. &ldquo;We will not hesitate dealing firmly with any school head not complying with the fees guidelines. We have changed the timetable for field officers. You will be in the field 70 per cent and 30 per cent in the office. You have no business being in office and you are a field officer,&rdquo; added Matiang&rsquo;i. Already the Government is paying a grant of Sh12,870 allocated to each learner in all public secondary schools. The amount is an increase from Sh10,260 that was initially set aside for each learner at the commencement of the free-day secondary school learning programme in 2008. According to Matiang&rsquo;i, the Government intends to gradually increase the grant to cater for the total cost of schooling at the secondary school level. FEES GUIDELINE ALSO READ: Form One selection to begin today &ldquo;As guided by a presidential directive of August 19, 2016, fees for 2017 shall remain at the ceilings set by the said Gazette notice. School fees should be appropriately spread throughout the year in the ratio of 50-30-20 for first, second and third terms respectively,&rdquo; noted Matiang&rsquo;i. He said that the fees guidelines must be implemented without exception whatsoever and directed that all regional coordinators and county directors of education must ensure that it is strictly adhered to. The CS said the officers should employ all sanctions including barring any defaulting principal from being a signatory to school accounts. He advised parents to pay the exact amount of fees provided for in the Gazette notice, and report any cases of additional charges to their respective regional education coordinators and county directors of education. Boards of Management in schools were also advised to run schools using fees set within the set ceilings and should institute suitable austerity measures to ensure that the cost of education remains affordable to all parents. &ldquo;County Education Boards should take appropriate action, including revoking the appointment of any Board of Management in schools where the guidelines are violated,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Annual church youth camp turns tragic as KCPE champion, girl die in Migori