The issue of integrity dominated interviews of candidates for the electoral agency officials&#39; jobs. Candidates were also put to task over their fidelity to the rule of law and understanding of the country&#39;s electoral processes. The first batch of five candidates was challenged to explain their solutions to the gaps that have blotted the country&#39;s previous elections, including past experiences relevant to the electoral process. Vincent Kimosop, a governance expert, was first to appear before the selection panel. He told the panel that as a commissioner, integrity would be his guiding principle. He told the panel chaired by Bernadette Musundi if nominated, he would promote engagement among all political players and resist any attempts to compromise him. &quot;If anyone is going to join the commission, we have to be very firm on doing the right thing. I have no problem resigning if evidence is brought against me that I&#39;m doing the wrong things. Only a few people can save a generation,&quot; said Mr Kimosop. &quot;I will not compromise my integrity. I will put it above everything. If I see things I don&#39;t&#39; believe in, I will not engage. Currently, we need to live within our laws, but all our problems cannot be solved through the law. We need to have an engagement with all players on the issue. We need to engage political parties.&quot; READ MORE ODM party members summoned over fight at Homa Bay rally Public rallies in Mumias banned to allow recovery of guns Fresh attempt to ensure zero rigging in Kenya's 2017 polls Johnson Masai Chengeiwo, a professor at Egerton University, said he does not believe opinion polls have a bearing on the outcome of an elections. He waded into the controversial topic by arguing that the majority of voters do not participate in the sampling. &quot;Opinion polls are okay, but they do not translate into actual votes. They only serve to inform somebody of their ratings,&quot; said the candidate. He said if selected, he would push for early deployment of election technology. He drew parallels with the last general election when late deployment of technology was blamed for failures experienced on election day. &quot;We will ensure we develop a very good Information Technology system so that people are registered and those who have died are removed from the voters&#39; register. One of the weaknesses of the system in the last election is that the equipment was brought in too late. If we want to succeed, then technology must be brought in early enough and people must be trained by a reputable firm,&quot; said the professor. Asked by lawyer Evans Monari, a panellist, what steps he has taken as a university administrator to ensure disputes are resolved amicably, Mr Masai said he helped end the practice of students cooking in university hostels. Other members of the recruitment panel are Cannon Peter Karanja Mwangi, Abdulghafur HS El-Busaidy, Bishop David Oginde and Rajesh Rawal, Mary Karen Kigen, Rtd Justice Tom Mbaluto and Ogla Chepkemoi Karani.