NAROK: Presidential candidate Abduba Dida says he will use religion to fight corruption if elected next year. Dida who unsuccessfully vied for the presidency during the 2013 General Election dismissed Jubilee&#39;s fight against the vice. Dida, who spoke at Darul Quran Mosque yesterday, said Kenya has lost the war against corruption because leaders don&#39;t believe in God. &quot;Both Christianity and Islam have outlawed any form of stealing. This involves using money to buy poor voters as well as giving false promises. If elected, I will ensure Kenyans get back all the stolen cash, Dida said.&nbsp; &quot;The Jubilee leadership must seek divine intervention if they are to win the fight against corruption for if you cannot respect God, you won&#39;t respect your mother, neighbour and anybody. Anyone who does not believe in God is worse than an animal and this is what we are seeing in our country today.&quot; Dida noted religious doctrines make leaders disciplined. &quot;Disciplined leaders will not engage in corruption that is hurting our economy.&quot; READ MORE Biwot endorses DP Ruto for 2022 presidential bid Infighting rocks Jubilee Party as aspirants reject county campaign chiefs Uhuru says No to name-calling in campaigns He said the reason he wants to be president of Kenya is to help the country realise development and for citizens to lead a good life. Meanwhile, Dida caused laughter when he declared that no newlyweds shall be issued with a marriage certificate until the bride obtains a certificate in nutrition. &quot;Health will be a key factor in my leadership. Women cannot go around feeding their husbands on carbohydrates throughout making them pot-bellied in the process. A wife should be trained in nutrition to a balanced meal,&quot; said Dida. Wajir South MP Abdullahi Diriye, who accompanied him, called on Muslims to throw their weight behind Dida saying he is capable of leading the country. &quot;In the last elections, I voted Dida for President and will do so again. All Muslims should support Dida by voting as a bloc,&quot; he said.