Opposition politicians and Kanu accused the Jubilee government of undermining devolution and asked them to prepare to leave office come 2017 General election. The leaders drawn from Orange Democratic Movement, Wiper, Kanu and Chama Cha Mashinani said it was time Jubilee was shown the door for ills against Kenyans. The leaders who included ODM deputy party leaders Wycliffe Oparanya and Hassan Joho were speaking at a fundraiser in Emurua Dikirr. &nbsp;&quot;Kenyans are fed up, if it is not empty promises they are stealing&nbsp; money meant for service delivery and that is a free ticket to quit statehouse,&quot; said oparanya. The leaders also intensified calls to unite against jubilee in the next election. &quot;We are going to hold hands and ensure that Jubilee is out of office,&quot; added Oparanya. Oparanya said devolution had suffered in the hands of Jubilee saying Kenyans should not forgive them for not ensuring that devolution was fully implemented. READ: Raila and Musalia say super alliance is unstoppable &nbsp;Kanu chairman and Baringo senator Gideon Moi said it would not be business as usual come 2017 adding that Rift Valley will chat the way forward saying it was time to make wise decision against a bias leadership. He asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to wake up from political slumber and reach out to voters in Rift Valley on his own. &quot;President should stop relying on other people to reach out to voters in Rift valley. This he has been using of late are political brokers out to make selfish interest,&quot; Senator Moi said in a veil attacks on the DP. Oparanya added &quot;The biggest victim of Jubilee bad leadership is devolution and that is enough reason to hold them accountable,&quot; He said unlike other countries with same system of government Kenya was the only country that was devolving a paltry 15 per cent to counties. The Mombasa Governor launched scathing attacks against Deputy President saying he was disrespectful to leaders from his backyard. READ: Police killed 12 people in 175 protests in the last 11 month: Agency says Among the leaders present were Isaac Ruto (Bomet) and MPs Patrick Ntutu from Narok west, Kajiado west MP Memusi Kanchori, Gladys Wanga from Homa Bay, Patrick Malay from Mavoko and Larissa MP Abdikadir. Bomet Governor hinted that his CCM party was ready to join the opposition alliance being fronted by ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi. He said coming together was a sure way to get rid of Jubilee in 2017. &quot;We must come together and if it means joining NASA to send home jubilee I will ensure CCM is part of the alliance,&quot;Ruto said. Kuresoi South MP Zakayo Cheruiyot said the Kalenjin community needed to be set free from political hostage. Cheruiyot who has decamped to KANU said Rift Valley had not gotten value for the votes they cast in 2013 saying Jubilee reneged on some of their promises. READ: Russian cargo ship destroyed after launch for Space Station &quot;We have no option but to speak through the ballot and tell jubilee we are not satisfied with their style of leadership which is discriminative on development being rolled out,&quot; said Cheruiyot. Mavoko MP Patrick Makau who represented Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka said his party was ready to work with likeminded leaders to defeat Jubilee come 2017.