National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale has sensationally claimed that Opposition chief Raila Odinga plans to rig the 2017 polls using the electronic system. Duale claimed that Raila is working with an American-Canadian&ndash;a Mr Michael Yard&ndash; to hack into the system of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) and defeat the incumbent President Uhuru Kenyatta. Duale also accused Raila of meddling too much into the operations of the electoral agency and asked him to choose whether he wants to be a competitor or he wants to work in the commission. &quot;We have reliable information that Raila is planning to rig the 2017 elections with the assistance of Michael Yard. We challenge the IEBC to give a report on the activities of the Mr Yard,&quot; claimed Duale. Sunday, accompanied by a host of Jubilee leaders at the Party Headquarters, Duale said that Parliament will reconvene Tuesday to amend the Electoral laws recently passed to allow the electoral body use an alternative mechanism in case the electoral technology fails. ALSO READ: Why Raila and Uhuru are fighting for Coast and Western The proposal to amend the law barely four months since it was passed after a protracted battle on the streets is now being opposed by the Opposition lawmakers. The proposed amendment states that the commission shall put in place an alternative and complementary mechanism for identification and transmission of election results that is simple, accurate, verifiable, secure, accountable and transparent. &quot;The Commission shall use the alternative mechanism referred to in sub-section 8A for identification and transmission of election results only where the technology initially deployed fails,&quot; reads part of the proposed amendment. However, the Opposition argued that the law was passed after consultation between the political divide and nothing has changed since the law came to effect to warrant a change. Opposition luminaries Agnes Zani (ODM&#39;s Secretary General), the party&#39;s Chairman John Mbadi (Suba), Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja), Nicholas Gumbo (Rarieda), Abdikadir Aden (Balambala) and Eseli Simiyu (Tongaren) said that any move to amend the law will be resisted. Dr Zani argued that changing the law is pre-empting that the electoral technology will fail and questioned why the electoral agency cannot find a fully integrated system that will not fail. &ldquo;The recent elections in Ghana, USA, Nigeria have proved that where there is political will, transparency, laws and fully integrated systems give actual results. The transparency expected from IEBC is not being maintained as stipulated by law,&rdquo; said Zani. ALSO READ: Jubilee has nothing new to offer, says Raila Her counterpart Ford Kenya Secretary General Dr Eseli Simiyu questioned why a government founded on digital age is afraid of using technology for the 2017 elections. &quot;Why is the government that calls itself digital afraid of use of technology for elections? Was the technological failure at the last election pre-arranged and a repeat of the same is being prepared for 2017? I see malice for the inexplicable paranoia regarding election technology,&quot; said Simiyu. ODM&#39;s Secretary for Political Affairs Opiyo Wandayi warned that should the amendments pass in the House using the Jubilee&#39;s tyranny of numbers, then they will use other means to ensure that elections are free, fair and credible. He said that the opposition members will oppose the proposed amendments to any length and means, adding that elections must either be credible or there is no election. &quot;We shall vigorously oppose any amendments to the election laws. We shall resist by all means. If they succeed to do so by the use of the so called tyranny of numbers, they shall have crossed the red line. The 2017 polls must either be credible or there is no election,&quot; said Wandayi. According to Duale, the proposed amendments are logical and will help IEBC to have an alternative mechanism and ensure that no voter is disenfranchised when the electronic system fails. Duale argued that if the current law is left as is, IEBC will have no other way of conducting the polls other than the electronic way whether it fails or not. ALSO READ: Duale faces his toughest political battle &quot;IEBC sat with the Justice and Legal Affairs committee and developed the amendments. They explained the need for the change and they gave valid reasons,&quot; said Duale. Curiously, the proposed law does not define the word &#39;alternative mechanism&#39; but leaves it for IEBC to set the threshold of what an &#39;alternative mechanism&#39; is. &quot;Before using the alternative mechanism for identification and transmission of election results, the commission shall notify the public and all candidates and shall immediately cause the notification to be published in the electronic media and in at least two daily newspapers of nationwide circulation detailing the reasons necessitating the use of the alternative mechanism,&quot; reads part of the amendment. And now the battle between the two leading political coalitions will again test their might in passing the amendments as proposed. Duale will also move a motion to defer the requirement that MPs and Members of the County Assembly (MCA) be degree holders. Also in the House in-tray is the Electoral Campaign Finance regulations that requires all election candidates to open an account and have details sent to the IEBC.