&nbsp; There was a moment of anxiety when a woman heading for Naivasha Sub-County Hospital gave birth in the streets of Naivasha. The woman developed labour pains near the town&#39;s post office and began screaming, attracting members of the public, including a clinical officer, who came to her aid and helped her to give birth. They then took her to hospital. According to Absolom Mukuusi, a witness, the woman first fell on her knees before she started screaming. &quot;The woman is a flower farm worker and was heading to hospital for a normal check-up but she developed labour pains on the way,&quot; he said. Mr Muukusi, the chairman of Naivasha Professional Association, said women, together with the clinical officer, rushed to the woman&#39;s aid. &quot;Using &#39;shuka&#39; (wrapping cloths), the women cordoned off the spot and minutes later, a boy was born in good health,&quot; he said. Mukuusi added that the mother and the baby were taken to a nearby private hospital where they were admitted for examination. And as this was going on, members of the public stumbled on a new-born baby who had been dumped near Milimani Primary School in the lakeside town. Cries from the infant attracted locals who rescued the child and took her to the nearby Children&#39;s Department offices. Weak cries Martin Sangira was heading home for lunch when he heard the weak cries of the baby. &quot;At first I thought it was a dog but on checking, I found a well-dressed baby in the bushes and called our MCA,&quot; he said. Nominated MCA Esther Mengere, who joined in the rescue, said the baby was around two days old. &quot;We have taken the baby to the Naivasha Sub-County Hospital for examination as police investigate this case,&quot; she said. Ms Mengere noted that incidents of mothers dumping their children or having abortions, especially in the informal settlements, were on the rise. She said in the last two months, three cases of abandoned babies and abortions had been reported in various estates in Naivasha.