A man who confessed about police killings in Nakuru may have been executed after he linked some officers at the Nakuru Central Police Station to extra-judicial killings. The lean, haggard man of medium height with blood-shot eyes confessed to have lured eight people to their death trap, according to a CID officer, has been killed. Tonny said he felt guilty for having taken part in the deaths of people for which he would be paid as little as Sh1,000 by a senior officer. The highest amount he ever received was Sh5,000. &ldquo;I want to get out of this and I know they will kill me eventually because they forced me into it. I sometimes switch off my phone but whenever I put it on, the senior officers would call me threatening to kill me. I want to get out of this and I need help,&rdquo; he told The Standard on Saturday in a recorded interview. This writer linked Tonny to the Independent Police Oversight Authority (IPOA) which sent its officers led by Aggrey Amadi to interview and take his statement so that he could be put under witness protection. On Friday, Amadi who said he left IPOA in October, noted that he did his report recommending that Tonny be put under witness protection and handed to the authority&rsquo;s CEO Joel Mabonga. &ldquo;I took his statement and wrote a report and sent to my superiors. In my report, I recommended he be put under the witness protection unit,&rdquo; said Amadi. He said he later received a call from Tonny asking him what was the next step because his life was in danger. &ldquo;There is a time he called me saying he was in danger and I told him to take precaution knowing that the authority would act on the report but at times it takes time because of backlog of cases,&rdquo; said Amadi. The Standard on Saturday could not reach Mabonga but in a text message, IPOA chairman Macharia Njeru said he was not aware if Tonny (pictured) had been eliminated but promised to find out. &ldquo;I am not aware. I will find out,&rdquo; said Njeru. We could also not reach the whistle blower who directed this writer to Tonny. ALSO READ: String of murders points to bigger problem in Kenya police force The man, who called erratically to pass the information, has been off air for the last two months. He never gave this writer his name and would only give instructions which were precise and to the point. Could he have been eliminated also by the police after realising he was speaking to a journalist?