Taita Taveta University will soon become the country&#39;s major training institution for students taking courses in mining. Mining Cabinet Secretary Dan Kazungu said yesterday that the university, which was recently awarded a charter by President Uhuru Kenyatta, will be the only university offering mining studies in the country. &quot;The Government will soon make the institution a Centre of Excellence in mining and in East Africa to offer mining and mineral processing training,&quot; said the CS. Mr Kazungu was speaking at the university during an event to celebrate the granting of the charter. The CS exuded confidence that mining would become a leading sector to drive the country&#39;s economy. &quot;The tourism and agriculture sectors, which have been contributing a lot to the country&#39;s GDP, are currently performing poorly. The flourishing mining sector will top other sectors due to the new Mining Act and policies that have streamlined mining operations,&quot; said Kazungu. He said the impending geo-physical survey to determine the country&#39;s mineral wealth would also help create investment opportunities to spur economic growth. The CS was accompanied by among others Governor John Mruttu, University Chancellor Sally Kosgei, acting Vice Chancellor Hamadi Boga and the university council chairperson, Lucia Omondi. During the celebrations, Prof Omondi handed the charter and other instruments of authority to the university. Kazungu said the establishment of the national mining school and the completion of the Sh50 million gemology centre in Voi town would add value to the region widely known for precious and industrial minerals. The CS said the Government would continue to invest in a knowledge-based economy that would appreciate the true value and potential of the mining sector. Dr Kosgei and Prof Boga said the university stood tall among the elite league of universities in the country, boasting a recent grant of Sh42 million by the German Exchange Programme (DAAD). The grant is to be used to start a Centre of Excellence for mining, environmental engineering and resource management in collaboration with two partner German universities - the University of Applied Sciences in Dresden and TU Bergakademie Freiberg. The partnership makes the university the eighth Centre of Excellence in Africa. The two-year programme will see the centre design a new mining curriculum.