President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday accused Opposition leaders of swindling public funds when they were in Government. President Kenyatta said his government had prudently used public funds to build roads, increase electricity connectivity and subsidise health, among other projects. &ldquo;The people currently propagating lies that the Jubilee government has overseen excessive loss of public funds have no moral authority to question my leadership, we are not thieves and instead they are the ones who swindled lots of taxpayers&rsquo; money when they served in previous regimes,&rdquo; he said. The President and his deputy William Ruto were in Nandi and Uasin Gishu counties to launch several road projects. &ldquo;Some of those saying we have stolen money and have not done any development were ministers of roads and finance respectively and another was a vice president and have nothing to tell us now because we cannot see what they did,&rdquo; the President added. Speaking during the commissioning of the construction of the Kapkatembo-Rivatex and Kaiboi-Kipkaren roads in Mosop, Nandi County, Uhuru accused the Opposition of using baseless allegations to discredit Jubilee. READ: Raila meets Kalonzo as sharing of political slots under NASA shapes up &ldquo;We have not delayed in implementing our projects as the usual detractors allege but we have been looking for cost-effective ways to build roads. They are the ones who hoarded road contracts by doing a kilometre of road at Sh100 million while we are doing the same at Sh41 million,&rdquo; Uhuru said. The President Uhuru and his deputy arrived at Kapkatembo, the first stopover of their tour shortly after 1pm and called on the rather silent multitude to back the Jubilee government. He assured that his Government had a long-term agenda to develop the country. &ldquo;I appeal to you not to be lured with other political alliances that are interested in allocating leadership positions to their members and not to serve the people,&rdquo; Uhuru told the pensive crowd that had been waiting for him since morning. He was speaking in reference to the National Super Alliance formation fronted by Mr Mudavadi, which he said had no agenda of addressing the electorate&rsquo;s needs. And the President reassured farmers that the Government was finalising the disbursement of Sh500 million to offset New Kenya Co-operative Creameries (NKCC) debts to ensure the public gets back its huge shareholding of the milk processor. He rubbished allegations that the company had been sold to a private investor. READ: Raila meets Kalonzo as sharing of political slots under NASA shapes up Mr Ruto continued with his onslaught of the Opposition, saying the Jubilee government had overseen the construction of 6,000km or road and increased electricity connections. He said and the Jubilee government will focus on industrialisation and employment of youth in its second term if re-elected. &ldquo;Jubilee&rsquo;s track record speaks for itself and it is the sole reason we will win the next General Election. We do not have time to argue with liars who failed to perform when they served as leaders,&rdquo; the DP said. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, who accompanied the two, said the Jubilee leadership had done in three years what previous governments failed to do in 50 years and therefore deserved to be re-elected. The President and his deputy, however, steered clear of the ongoing doctors&rsquo; strike that enters its fifth day today. The crowd thunderously called on the DP to allow Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter to address them but Ruto ignored the calls and instead questioned if Keter was still in Jubilee. &ldquo;We have Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter, I heard that he had defected, has he come back?&rdquo; Ruto asked. And later in the evening when Uhuru and Ruto launched the construction of the Kesses-Lessos road, Mr Keter,&nbsp; in whose Nandi Hills Constituency Lessos sits, utilised the opportunity to make his political stand clear, saying he has never left Jubilee. After pledging his loyalty, Keter passed the microphone to his close friend and Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi who had also been viewed as a rebel who said they seemed to be rebels because they were raising genuine concerns. READ: Wetangula to skip Raila, Kalonzo talks on Super Alliance &ldquo;I would like to honestly ask you (Uhuru) to talk to the DP... to go slow on me. Ananifuatia nini sana, mwambie awachane na mimi. (He&rsquo;s been too hard on me, tell him to tone down a bit),&rdquo; Sudi said. Ruto said the conflict was over. &ldquo;Nilitaka kutoa kiboko yangu ya kunyorosha hawa vijana lakini sasa tuko pamoja hio maneno imeisha (I was about to punish these chaps but we are now past that),&rdquo; said Ruto. &mdash; Addition reporting by Michael Ollinga and Silah Koskei