There is no let-up in the number of corruption cases the Auditor General&rsquo;s office reveals with every new audit report.From the outset, major corruption scandals seemed to be centred on the national government. Subsequent reports however show that the malaise has spread far and wide. County governments have not escaped the cancer of corruption. Neither have Members of Parliament as billions of shillings cannot be accounted for.Members of Parliament who had earlier been accused of falsifying mileage claims and taking sitting allowances for committee meetings they did not attend are now in the spotlight for misappropriating Sh4 billion in the 2013/2014 financial year, according to an audit report by the Auditor General. This stolen money was allocated under the Constituency Development Fund (CDF), which Members of Parliament have been very protective of. Yet we have all heard reports from constituencies of how Members of Parliament use the CDF money to gain advantage over opponents. There were complaints too that MPs entrusted the management of CDF to their cronies and relatives.This is not to say all MPs are incorrigible, or that nothing good has come out of CDF, far from it. In some constituencies, CDF has done a lot but the inevitable under-hand dealings have taken place, occasioning huge losses.Corruption cases revolving around the heist at the National Youth Service (NYS) and and the Ministry of Devolution in which over Sh1 billion went missing, the mysteries surrounding the usage of the Sh280 billion Eurobond money and many other cases in public domain must be concluded soon.Justice must be seen to be done. Attention is now on Chief Justice David Maraga who must do everything in his power to ensure the sluggish pace at which cases move through the court system is hastened. It is not in vain that people say &lsquo;justice delayed is justice denied&rsquo;.In the fight against corruption, the Judiciary has always taken most of the blame, first for the slow pace of processing cases and secondly, for the ease with which culprits and suspects get injunctions, throwing the occasional spanner in the works all in a bid to dislodge the wheel of justice.The Judiciary must remain the country&rsquo;s last line of defence. Thus, CJ Maraga must make the Supreme Court stronger and more authoritative. He should not bow to the whims of the political class that tries to determine the direction and tempo at which things in this country move. Ordinary Kenyans look up to the courts to uphold their rights, redress injustices and offer remedies to a myriad of other issues.The proposal to hear corruption cases continuously comes at the right time, when Kenyans are losing hope. They view corruption cases before court as a formality aimed at hoodwinking the public the law is taking its course.The NYS case, for instance, has been pushed through at least seven false starts and even then, the investigations and those actually charged in court give little hope that the real culprits will pay for their sins.Therefore, hearing cases on a continuous basis gives the only glimmer of hope that many of the cases will be concluded in the shortest time possible. Where the trail is cold, the culprits, having covered their tracks, can afford a smile knowing they are safe.