The remains of a human body were yesterday discovered after a private developer encroached on land belonging to Langata Cemetery. The developer suspected to have dug the trench that uncovered the remains has put up residential apartments close to the cemetery. As families that have already moved into the posh houses went about their business yesterday, two other families were conducting burial ceremonies in the graveyard a few metres away. A 300m-long trench from the residential estate runs through the cemetery with raw sewage to &#39;no man&#39;s land&#39;. &quot;Households are discharging raw sewage to an open sewer using a trench that passes through Lang&#39;ata Cemetery land. This is unacceptable and I have ordered the disconnection and covering of the trench,&quot; said Nairobi County Health Executive Bernard Muia. ALSO READ: Business summit to showcase Eastleigh as business and investment hub In the process of digging the trench, coffins were dug up and the contractors exposed the remains of a child still wrapped in a white garment. &quot;How do you grab land where souls are resting? This is a disgrace and we will not allow it to happen. I appeal to Nairobi residents to inspect land ownership before moving to any residential areas,&quot; he added. Mugumuini Ward MCA Alex Otieno claimed the developer put up the houses on cemetery land, saying he had moved past the beacons erected on the boundary. &quot;It&#39;s disrespectful to the dead for someone to dig through the cemetery, especially this one where bodies are buried in three layers thus exposing them easily. We have given the estate chairperson 24 hours to cover up the trench,&quot; said Mr Otieno. PERIMETER WALL Muia said he would work with Lands Executive Christopher Khaemba to establish whether part of the estate had been built on cemetery land. Otieno however blamed corruption for the lack of a perimeter wall around the cemetery. He said the defunct Nairobi City Council began a Sh40 million project to fence off the cemetery but it was never completed. ALSO READ: SGR spells doom for Nairobi National Park &quot;There is a new contract to put a perimeter wall around this cemetery and the first phase is expected to cost the county Sh28 million but that has also stalled,&quot; he said. Eric Okech, the caretaker of the estate, said he noticed a trench running through the cemetery only a day ago. He said he travelled upcountry to attend a funeral a week ago and when he returned, he found the trench dug. &quot;By the time people were moving in, I was not aware that we were so close to a grave site until those remains were unearthed yesterday,&quot; said Mr Okech. Nairobi Water Officer Elijah Choti told The Standard that the sewer tunnel had been dug illegally as there was no approval from the county government. The sewer, which he said poses a health hazard, is one of several that have been illegally dug in the estate. Mr Choti said the Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company would work on doing away with illegal connections within seven days as directed by the county&#39;s Health department.