Western region coordinator Mongo Chimwaga has banned public rallies around Mumias to allow smooth operations by police to recover stolen guns. His warning comes at a time Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya is said to be planning to hold a public rally in Mumias. It is hardly one week since suspected thugs raided Booker Police Post in Mumias and made away with seven guns and over 180 rounds of ammunition. Police have since announced a Sh500, 000 reward for anyone who will volunteer information on the whereabouts of the suspects. Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet stated that they have neither recovered guns nor arrested any suspect in connection with the raid. Chimwaga, speaking at a news conference yesterday, said it was not the right time for politicians to stage political rallies anywhere near Mumias and particularly in Shibale saying it will jeopardize police efforts to recover the guns . READ MORE ODM party members summoned over fight at Homa Bay rally Fresh attempt to ensure zero rigging in Kenya's 2017 polls IPOA launches probe into Mumias police brutality &quot;Let politicians stop taking politics to Mumias since we have not concluded operations. We are committed to ensuring that the guns are returned to the armory,&quot; he said. He reiterated that no one is safe when seven guns are in wrongs hands especially as the nation gears towards the next general elections. Claims that officers used excessive force during an operation last week has prompted the Independent Policing and Oversight Authority to launch investigations. Chimwaga called on those who were brutalised to launch their complaints to Kenya Human Rights Commission and IPOA for justice to prevail. He however warned those planning to feed rights commissions and IPOA with lies that they will be arrested and prosecuted. &quot;We have said that for those who were assaulted during the operations, IPOA is on the ground so take your complaints to them but we are warning that we do not want to see people going there purporting that they were assaulted when they were not. We will not take that lightly,&quot; he said.