One hour after 2016 KCPE results were officially released, business in Kakamega town came to a standstill as Daisy Special School for the physically handicapped and Vocational Training marched to the streets to celebrate sterling performance. The integrated school produced the best candidate countrywide, Victor Oduor Odhiambo who scored 437 marks. It also produced the best candidate countrywide in the special needs category, Allan Odanga, who scored 422 marks. Odanga, who was a special candidate could not join the rest in celebrating as he is being treated in Nairobi. Odhiambo was closely followed by Sangora Winston who scored 426 marks. The school located at Kefinco estate slightly a kilometer from Kakamega town beat giant schools like Kakamega Hill School, Booker Academy and St. Joseph Academy who have dominated the top spots in past examinations. The school performance got everyone in Kakamega by surprise as locals had expected the usual giants to shine. READ MORE Examinations agency tells Kenyans to expect drastic reduction in number of As D-day: Verdict out on Kenya's most guarded exams Uhuru praises Matiang'i on credible KCPE results When The Standard team visited the school minutes after the results were announced, Odhiambo was still in shock following his excellent performance and he could only murmur a few words. &quot;I am grateful to the almighty God. I did not expect such results nor to be the top student countrywide,&quot; he said. Odhiambo told those who will be sitting for their final examination next year to believe in themselves and not to despise little known schools. &quot;Many pupils here used to say 400 marks is for bigger schools but I want them to drop that notion and believe in themselves. You can achieve the results anywhere so long as you work hard, be disciplined and be prayerful,&quot; he advised. He added &quot;Those who perform are not the ones who are clever but are the ones who are both intelligent and disciplined and are not boastful.&quot; He wants to study medicine in future and become a neurosurgeon.