Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma and his Migori counterpart Okoth Obado are once again in a tight spot following fresh differences with their local party branch officials. Ranguma&#39;s troubles started early this week when he was quoted as blaming Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) political rallies of slowing down his development work. This has ruffled feathers at the local ODM branch while Obado is facing hostility from the county party branch officials who insist they have not recognised his recent defection from the People&#39;s Democratic Party. Ranguma has since denied the reports, saying he had been quoted out of context. The Kisumu governor who is flying the ODM flag said he was simply referring to an incident where he was torn between attending an investor conference in Estonia and attending an ODM rally in the region. ALSO READ: Mwakwere meets Raila as he eyes Kwale governorship on ODM ticket &quot;Because people love Baba, I knew I would be mistaken if I did not attend the ODM rallies so I decided to opt for politics at the expense of development,&quot; he then switched to another topic. Ranguma now claims Senator Anyang&#39; Nyong&#39;o and Hezron Mac Obewa are giving him sleepless nights with what, according to him, was a light statement now turned slur against the party. The local ODM branch, On Friday gave him 24 hours to apologise or face disciplinary action. County Branch Chairman Ayiecho Olweny accused the governor of using the party activities as a scapegoat. &quot;I didn&#39;t mean to defame the party. The issue was blown out of proportion and we are taking action to forestall further propaganda against me doing rounds over the social media,&quot; he explained. In Migori, Obado faces fresh onslaught from party members who claim he had not officially defected back to ODM from PDP. Branch officials, led by Philip Makabongo claimed that they will not recognise his candidacy in ODM because up to date they had no clear records proving him to be a life member. ALSO READ: Ranguma blames media for &lsquo;misrepresenting&rsquo; facts on his ODM engagements