ELDORET: Six people have perished following a ghastly road accident which occurred at Kahoya near Timboroa trading centre along the Nakuru-Eldoret highway. In the Saturday morning accident involving a matatu heading to Eldoret town and an empty fuel tanker travelling in the opposite direction, several other people were injured and are being treated at various private health facilities in Eldoret town. Among the dead were the drivers of the two vehicles and four passengers in the ill-fated matatu belonging to Eldoret Sacco. Five died on the spot while the sixth succumbed as he was rushed to Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital (MTRH). Public health facilities are not in operation following the ongoing countrywide doctors&#39; strike and the survivors were left unattended for hours following their kin to transfer them to private health institutions. At St Luke orthopaedic and trauma hospital two patients are still admitted in critical condition. One underwent surgery Saturday with relatives milling around the facility praying for their kin to recover. ALSO READ: 47 Kenyans die on roads in a week as NTSA says accidents have reduced Eugene Kipchirchir, a cousin to one of the survivors said he talked to his kin for the last time where he informed him they were past Salgaa trading at around 11pm having left Nairobi at 5.30 in the evening. &quot;My subsequent calls through his mobile phone did not go through because the telephone was off. I waited for him at Eldoret town until four in the morning when I decided to go back to my house,&quot; said Kipchirchir. He said early in the morning he went check with the Eldoret Sacco management after his calls did not go through where he was informed of the sad news about the accident. &quot;I rushed MTRH where the survivors had been brought in and unfortunately because of the doctors strike my cousin and other injured passengers were lying there unattended and we took the private hospital,&quot; said Kipchirchir. He disclosed that from a chat with his cousin who sustained head and legs injuries, the driver had been sleeping while driving. &quot;The government should enforce rules which compels Sacco management to employ more than one driver for a specific vehicle. This is a festive season and most drivers are overworked leading to such accidents,&quot; he said. He also blamed the National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA) for inspecting vehicles and making arrest based on flimsy reasons instead of ensuring PSV vehicles plying longer routes have several drivers. Peter Kabiru, who witnessed the horrific scene, said the matatu was trying to overtake another vehicle but collided head on with the oncoming oil tanker. &quot;The Matatu driver was attempting to overtake another vehicle at a high speed before it rammed head on with the fuel tanker. The two vehicles mangled into each other,&quot; said Kabiru. He said the area is black spot and asked relevant agencies to erect bumps as one way of reducing road carnages. ALSO READ: 47 Kenyans die on roads in a week as NTSA says accidents have reduced The accident caused traffic snarl-ups along the busy road which lasted until yesterday dawn. Koibatek OCPD Jonathan Wafula said the bodies of the victims have been taken to Eldama Ravime hospital mortuary as investigation into the incident have been commenced.