Cracks have emerged among Jubilee leaders in Mombasa after former Assistant minister Ananiah Mwaboza accused businessman Suleiman Shahbal of hijacking the running of affairs of the party. Speaking in Ganjoni in Mvita yesterday, Mwaboza, who has declared interest in the Mombasa governor&rsquo;s seat, claimed &ldquo;well connected&rdquo; individuals in the Jubilee Party were spreading rumours that he would step down for Shahbal, who is a member of President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s re-election campaign team at the Coast. &ldquo;There are stories doing rounds that we met at the office of Deputy President William Ruto and I agreed to step down for Shahbal. Those claims are false since I am in the race and will seek the JP ticket,&rdquo; Mwaboza said. He added he will not step down for anyone. Mwaboza further accused Shahbal of taking away JP from the masses by opening party office in the upmarket location of Nyali, which is not accessible to the common mwananchi. He said they will open up offices close to where party supporters live to ensure they can easily converge and chart out their political agenda. But speaking at the Moi International Airport last evening, Shahbal dismissed the claims. READ MORE Save Kenya by voting out Jubilee, urges Raila CORD rebels spark wrangles in Jubilee over control of affairs Jubilee leaders trash alliance talks &ldquo;Jubilee Party does not belong to Mwaboza and the issue of hijacking does not arise here. I welcome the decision to open up more offices. This in essence means our party is gaining support in a formerly CORD-dominated area,&rdquo; Shahbal said. He also dismissed reports that he had met Ruto to convince Mwaboza to step down for him. &ldquo;Competition is healthy. There are no guaranteed seats in Jubilee, save for the President and Deputy President. Everyone is welcome to contest any elective positions,&rdquo; Shahbal said. The two will battle it out with Governor Hassan Joho, who will be seeking re-election on an ODM ticket. Shahbal said he has President Kenyatta&rsquo;s blessings to help build a formidable Jubilee Party at the Coast and will not disappoint. He described assertions that he was relying on DP Ruto&rsquo;s intervention to secure the Jubilee ticket as &ldquo;petty politics&rdquo;. Shahbal assured Jubilee supporters that there was no in-fighting in the party.