Celebrations broke out in Coast schools, with the traditional high performers retaining their superiority in KCPE results released yesterday. The best candidate in the region, Gideon Maina of Mwatate Junior Academy in Taita Taveta, scored 423 marks, in exams termed the most credible. Private schools Light Academy, Saint Kevin, Aga Khan, Nyali Primary and Marjoy in Mombasa and the public Ganjoni Primary School had the best results. The best girl, Angela Jaden, who sat KCPE at Ganjoni Primary School, scored 419 marks ahead of Zainab Zaiddun of Aga Khan who scored 415. Although the best candidate in Coast scored 444 last year, parents and teachers yesterday termed this year&rsquo;s overall performance better because the examination was administered in an environment of peace and integrity. Muhammad Hassan of Aga Khan scored 422 marks while Martin Oduor of Saint Kevin scored 421 marks. Nixon Munene of Light Academy scored 420 marks. READ MORE Examinations agency tells Kenyans to expect drastic reduction in number of As D-day: Verdict out on Kenya's most guarded exams Kakamega produces best 2016 KCPE candidate countrywide Nationally, little-known Daisy Special School in Kakamega produced the country&rsquo;s top candidate, Victor Oduor Odhiambo, with 437 marks. Also, Kaboi Kevin Ngatia of Tender Care Academy in Nairobi was second with 436 marks. Ogongo Titus Anyona of Bungoma&rsquo;s Marell Academy and Gitonga Caroline Gatwiri of Freds Academy in Meru tied in position three with 434 marks. Yesterday, Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang&rsquo;i termed this year&rsquo;s results &ldquo;clean and credible&rdquo;. &ldquo;The examinations were very fruitful,&rdquo; Dr Matiang&rsquo;i said, attributing the success to a multi-sectoral approach in their management. The release of the results, which caught everyone by surprise, only lasted two hours. The event normally attended by all county directors of education, was only graced by top ministry officials. NO CANCELLATIONS Flanked by Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery and Joe Mucheru of Information and Communications Technology, Matiang&rsquo;i said that only 21 examination malpractices were recorded. Last year, some 7,089 KCPE exam candidates had their results cancelled. &ldquo;I wish to inform the country that for the first time in the history of the KCPE examination, there was no cancellation of results for any candidate,&rdquo; he announced. He said the success was due to various security measures put in place during the administration and management of the exams. Mucheru said the government fully embraced technology in the administration and processing of the examinations. &ldquo;The services were efficient because we looked at all possibilities of ensuring credible examinations. The results are credible, timely and accurate because of technology,&rdquo; said Mucheru. Matiang&rsquo;i said that the overall performance of this year&rsquo;s candidates dropped compared to last year. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;