As we strive to develop our beautiful Nairobi city, we must ensure that it is sustainable and that the people are involved in all stages of growth. As the architect of the Urban Renewal Project, which is now being referred to as the &ldquo;Kidero Housing Dream&rdquo; project, I am amazed at the speed at which the county is determined to roll-out the project without clear and precise engagements with the residents of Nairobi. It is paramount that vested interests do not play a role in the development of the project. The colonial government built houses for Africans with basic amenities such as social halls, playfields and clinics. Unfortunately, these aspects are often over-looked when developing modern-day housing. It is true that Nairobi has not developed any meaningful housing estates since the 1970s. It is also true that there is a serious shortage of housing, which needs to be addressed. This is what motivated my administration to develop a comprehensive policy paper with the idea of building a new city within a city premised on the Pretoria model. The vision was to deliver a mixed-development project that would cater to the interests of all social classes. The plan was to first commence with building housing to cater for about 15,000 families that are currently residing in the council houses. Residents would then be able to buy at subsidised prices or rent at affordable rates. In fact, one condition that H.E former president Mwai Kibaki gave us was that the social impact on the exiting dwellers would be factored in every stage of the project, rather than economic or political interests. We must ponder the following questions: What is the reason behind the exponential implementation of the project? (For instance, some of the estates set for demolition have no title deeds, so how would one proceed and develop?) Why has the current administration failed to implement prior flagship projects that were at an advanced stage? The projects include solid waste management by JICA, public transportation system by World Bank, implementation of the Master Plan by JICA, full implementation of the ICT strategy and Implementation of the financial management strategy? The urban renewal project is a noble one and needs to be supported. However, Nairobians should not be hoodwinked into rushing a project. Not when basic infrastructure like roads, pedestrian walk ways, cycling lanes, water etcetera have not been put in place to meet growing demand. The project should be stripped forth while proper, inclusive and meaningful consultations are made with the residents of Nairobi. If we empower the people to take ownership of the project, it is more likely to succeed. Nairobians must demand an audit of the entire process before commencement of this project. Building trust within communities is important and a process that cannot be rushed. With the general elections a few months away, the county government should reconsider its goals and not rush the process.