Kenya is at a crossroads again. Even as the Senate tries to broker fresh consensus over contested amendment of election laws, the Opposition is threatening to go back to the streets next week.The Jubilee coalition, which has a majority membership in the National Assembly, bulldozed amendments to electoral laws after the Opposition boycotted a special sitting, setting the stage for a confrontation. While both sides claim to have a point, we urge leaders to give dialogue a chance and explore all means available to resolve conflicts surrounding the contested elections laws with a view to holding a free, fair and credible General Election on August 8, 2017. At a time when the country needs a neutral voice of reason, religious leaders have curiously been silent or issuing just an occasional caution on the election laws, leaving many observers to question their mandate.Younger clerics are disgruntled that their leaders have taken a back seat at a time the country is nearly boiling over and failed to offer leadership and direction to faithful.Article 86 (a) of the Constitution spells out clearly that the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission must ensure that whatever voting method is used, the system should be simple, accurate, verifiable, secure, accountable and transparent. ALSO READ: Senate must give direction on poll lawsThe contest over the electoral process should not divide a country. For while the leadership is guilty of divisive politics, the country has no shortage of great, non-partisan leaders, information technology and electoral experts.The Elections Amendment Law (2016) was a product of a negotiated process that brought together MPs from both Houses, citizens and electoral players. While taking cognizance of the matters being raised by those proposing fresh changes, a bipartisan and consultative approach should be employed in making any amendments to the electoral laws.Any changes must therefore reflect the people&rsquo;s wish; a transparent, inclusive, predictable and efficient process.Lessons from the ill-fated 2007 elections are that for an election&rsquo;s outcome to be seen to be free and fair, the referee must be beyond reproach. History should not be let to repeat itself. A stitch in time saves nine. All efforts should be deployed to ensure the outcome doesn&rsquo;t undermine national peace and unity. Leaders from both Jubilee and CORD must rise up and save the country from a repeat of the early 2008 catastrophe.Dialogue and consensus, which are key to gaining trust in the electoral processes and ownership of the same, must be given a chance.For the umpteenth time, we encourage leaders to exercise restraint and demonstrate maturity and wisdom in their language and behaviour.Violence - whether physical, verbal or personal attacks on social media - must be shunned. ALSO READ: Kiambu widows call for dialogue over contested election lawsKenyans are looking at leaders as role models and the recent spike in violent rhetoric among the public and politicians only poisons the environment for a free, fair and democratic election.Our leaders must rise up and salvage the nation from the edge of another precipice.Religious leaders must speak up and stand by their calls for a credible election.