CORD leader Raila Odinga has said only a free and fair election will bring a lasting peace in the country.He urged Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery, who was present at the burial ceremony of veteran politician John Keen, to stop harassing Kenyans who demand justice against any planned election rigging. But speaking after Raila, Nkaissery dismissed the threats and warned that any violation of the law will be met with full force.&ldquo;Anyone who will break the law will face it because we will not spare them. If you lose the election, you should follow the legal procedure to contest it,&rdquo; said Nkaissery.No bloodshed ALSO READ: Raila Odinga warns against premature campaignsHe vowed not to allow blood to be spilt over politics.&ldquo;I know people go to elections to win. But if you win, let there be peace and if you lose, do not go to the streets,&rdquo; the CS said.&ldquo;It is not me who will come to arrest you when you flout the rules. I do not arrest people, the law does. Anyone who breaks the law should be ready to be dealt with according to it. We all want peace.&rdquo;Speaking about alleged injustices committed against the Maasai, Raila asked the Government to implement the Truth Justice and Reconciliation Commission report. Raila said said the government has been giving an excuse that the report is yet to be tabled in Parliament.&ldquo;I wonder why this report has been kept all this time without being implemented, when we talk about it we are told it has to be tabled in Parliament first,&rdquo; he said.All speakers praised the late Keen for his brave fight for the Maasai community. All leaders poured glowing tributes that painted a picture of a great father, statesman and a selfless leader who knew no tribal or racial boundaries.Cord co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka said Keen was a focused politician who fearlessly spoke his mind. ALSO READ: Raila Odinga warns against premature campaignsKeen, who died on Christmas Day aged 87, was buried at his home in Namanga, Kajiado County. Despite being included in the programme, both President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto were absent.President Kenyatta&rsquo;s condolence message was read by Nkaissery.&ldquo;We have lost a man who fought for our liberty. A man who will not be forgotten and has a legacy that will precede generations,&rdquo; the President said.Despite the family warning against politics at the beginning of the service, none of the leaders heeded the warning, and the controversial changes to the electoral laws was the hot topic. &ldquo;The last time we were with Mzee, we spent a whole three hours together. He was eager to know what transpired in Parliament with regard to the election laws,&rdquo; said Kajiado West MP Moses ole Sakuda.Kalonzo chastised the National Assembly for passing the contentious laws without question.&ldquo;The hope of Kenyans is now on the Senate&rsquo;s hands. As a coalition, we will still be meeting to deliberate the Senate&rsquo;s decision for a way forward,&rdquo; Kalonzo said.Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale criticised the government, saying the introduction of amendments to the electoral laws is a clear sign that the Executive seeks to retain power. ALSO READ: Tharaka Nithi to host CORD and Jubilee rallies&ldquo;But I want to tell Interior CS Nkaissery now that the only way this country will know peace is if there will be free and fair elections,&rdquo; said the outspoken senator.Keen had requested that he be buried within three days in his Namanga home and that no politics should be played at his funeral. The funeral was conducted by elders from his age group of Olnyangusi.Former President Kibaki eulogised Keen as an icon in his message of condolences sent to newsrooms.