Jubilee&nbsp;and&nbsp;CORD&nbsp;are likely to&nbsp;clash, after the Opposition demanded to be consulted in the&nbsp;appointment&nbsp;of new commissioners of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC). ODM Director of Political Affairs Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja) said the ongoing recruitment of&nbsp;IEBC&nbsp;commissioners was a &ldquo;circus&rdquo; citing the decision to suspend interviews of those who had been initially shortlisted. He demanded that President Uhuru Kenyatta consults the Opposition before settling on the person who will replace the outgoing chairman Issack Hassan. &ldquo;Those names released are of people who are not publicly known apart from one politician that we have noticed. We cannot talk much about them, but be sure we will be following the interviews closely,&rdquo; he said. But&nbsp;Senate Majority Leader Kithure Kindiki said the President was not obligated to consult anyone on the&nbsp;appointments, saying Parliament approval is meant to ensure the best people are picked for the position. ALSO READ: Opposition in secret plot for an &lsquo;all inclusive&rsquo; grand alliance The selection panel tasked to recruit commissioners of the&nbsp;IEBC&nbsp;has shortlisted more candidates for the chairperson&rsquo;s post. The selection panel headed by Bernadette Musundi unveiled names of five more candidates to join five others shortlisted last month. The team had two weeks ago re-advertised the position of chairperson, arguing that it required a larger pool to pick from. This was after Kenyans questioned the suitability of some candidates. And after the second round of applications, those shortlisted out of 35 applicants were former Kanu official in Mombasa, Taib Ali Taib, who also served as the coastal city&rsquo;s mayor, former commissioner of the Judicial Service Commission Florence Mwangangi, and lawyers Chebukati Wanyonyi Wafula, Tukero ole Kina and Lucas Leperes Naikuni. Suitability They now join Roseline Odhiambo Odede, Kiprop David Malakwen, Margaret Shava, David Mereka and Dr Mutakha Kangu, whose interviews have been pending following questions on their suitability. The panel has in the meantime asked the public to provide information on the suitability of the candidates before they are interviewed on December 19. ALSO READ: CORD warns of 2017 chaos if reforms aren't implemented Prof Kindiki suspects more competent Kenyans could be shying away from applying for the job due to the high turnover at the electoral agency. &ldquo;Am not surprised that those shortlisted are not people largely familiar with the key mandate of the Commission. This is a position that requires people with strong background of management in public affairs. I am not sure they pass that test,&rdquo; said the Tharaka Nithi Senator. Yesterday,&nbsp;CORD&nbsp;joined&nbsp;Jubilee&nbsp;in warning that they will reject some candidates who have so far been shortlisted if they are picked&nbsp;over&nbsp;claims of political bias. National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale had cautioned that some of those shortlisted had closely worked with the opposition. &ldquo;We will be watching these interviews very keenly. We will not accept some of the names that have been mentioned if they are nominated for approval. They cannot pass the impartiality test,&rdquo; he said.