More than two million Kenyans may not vote in the coming general election.The voters, according to Information and Communication Cabinet Secretary Joseph Mucheru, will be locked out if the Government goes ahead with plans to apply the use of the electronic voting system. The Senate&#39;s Legal Affairs Committee that is gathering public views on the controversial Election Laws (Amendment) Act, 2016 heard that the use of a purely electronic system by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) is prone to challenges.Making his submission before the committee, Mr Mucheru said there is need to use a manual back-up system alongside the electronic one to mitigate against any problems in case of system failure or hacking.&quot;A 10 per cent failure rate of the electronic voting system, which happens with most technological systems, means 2.5 million voters in the country will be disfranchised. A one per cent failure means 250,000 Kenyans won&#39;t be able to vote,&quot; said the CS. ALSO READ: Row over IEBC bad for poll resultsHe explained before the Amos Wako-led committee that network failure was another challenge, noting that only 17 per cent of country is covered by the 3G phone network.&quot;The system is reliant on mobile phone networks. Groups like Al Shabaab have brought down communication masts. In the event that they do so, we will be in a big problem. As a country, we should not be held hostage, we need to have alternatives,&quot; he added.Senators Omar Hassan (Mombasa) and Judith Sijeny (nominated) took a swipe at the CS, pointing out that the State was only coming up with flimsy excuses to see to it that IEBC does not use the electronic system in the coming polls.&quot;The issue of Al Shabaab is fear-mongering, it is giving the militia outfit credence. What is there for them to jam our system? Such excuse by the Government makes members of the group smile, as their role is to clog our lives with fear,&quot; argued Mr Hassan.&quot;From your submission, you have painted a scenario that using an electronic system is mission impossible. As a Government you have a duty of assisting IEBC to digitise the electoral process,&quot; said Ms Sijeny.But Mucheru absolved the Government from blame, saying the manual back-up system will not be the first option and will be put into use only if technology and network fails.&quot;We are not saying that we shouldn&#39;t have an electronic system. We need multiple back-up systems because the risks are very many. We must have an alternative in case systems get misconfigured,&quot; he said. ALSO READ: Legislators have let Kenyans downSenators Kiraitu Murungi (Meru) and Kembi Gitura (Murang&#39;a) threw their weight behind the CS, faulting unnamed Opposition leaders for misleading Kenyans into believing a manual system will result in rigging.