Political fireworks between Jubilee and CORD MPs are expected Tuesday as the National Assembly reconvenes to discuss an amendment on electoral law that allows for manual voting. The special sitting will also see MPs vote on the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill 2015 on educational requirements for election hopefuls. Parliament had passed provisions that make it mandatory for those seeking MP and MCA seats to have a university degree and post-secondary qualifications, but the legislators want to amend it to make it applicable after the August 8, 2017 General Election. The MPs will also vote on amendments to the now controversial Election Campaign Financing Regulations, 2016, which requires 2017 election candidates to open campaign accounts for easy monitoring of expenditure by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC). Opposition leader Raila Odinga is among a host of politicians who failed to comply with the requirement, citing its impracticability. ALSO READ: Coalitions in fresh battle over electoral reforms National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi convened the special sitting following a request by National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale. The voting amendment seeks to give IEBC freedom to put in place alternative means of identification and transmission of election results besides the electronic means agreed during the bipartisan negotiations. The amendment says this should only be employed in areas with network problems. But CORD has already warned against making any changes to the electoral laws. The Opposition claims that changes to the law were a ploy by Jubilee to create loopholes in the electoral management to allow for rigging. On Friday, the CORD leader and Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi threatened another round of street protests should Jubilee MPs bulldoze the changes using their &quot;tyranny of numbers&quot; in the National Assembly. Jubilee&#39;s Moses Kuria (Gatundu South) said there should be room for manual voting in the event of a technological failure. ALSO READ: Coalitions in fresh battle over electoral reforms