Betting on sports has become popular in Kenya, mainly due to the fact that people are now able to bet online on their favourite sports, leagues, teams and players from anywhere at any time.That said, sport itself is a multi-billion-dollar industry with a huge global audience and similarly explains the phenomenal growth of online sports betting. Mobile technology and other interactive platforms have fuelled the growth of online betting across the demographic spectrum. Though a fairly recent phenomenon in Kenya, the local sports-betting industry is experiencing rapid growth and is estimated to gross over Sh5 billion in revenues over the next 3 years. Just like other forms of gambling, sports betting is a voluntary activity.It is primarily an activity done at one&rsquo;s leisure and for one&rsquo;s entertainment. Several studies have shown a close symbiotic relationship between sports and sports betting. The rising popularity of online betting can be inadvertently linked to the massive publicity released by the global sports industry through mainstream and digital media platforms. In this way they can be seen to help each other out in ways that are mutually beneficial.A large number of sports-betting firms licensed to operate locally attest to the huge economic potential of this activity. If conducted in a responsible and ethical manner, sports betting can make an incredibly positive contribution to the local sports industry through sponsorships, as well as match publicity which could go a far way into increasing revenue for local stadiums ALSO READ:OUTCRY OVER KPL AWARDS:Questions linger over this year&rsquo;s football gala This will not only help develop the talent which already exists in Kenya, but also strengthen the culture surrounding the sport from a grass roots level. There have, however, been concerns regarding sports betting in Kenya, including privacy and legitimacy issues.Such concerns are rooted in some unfortunate incidents that have spawned fears over the social risks emanating not just from sports betting but gambling in general. Fortunately, such incidents are isolated and many Kenyans continue to engage in sports gambling in a responsible manner.It is important to emphasise here that sports gambling is a legal activity under the Betting, Lotteries and Gaming Act. It is also closely regulated by the Betting Control and Licensing Control Board. As such, there should be no concern about rogue operators fleecing the public. However, there appears to be a clear need for public education on the risks associated with irresponsible gambling.Sports betting, like all gambling activities, is an enjoyable activity if conducted responsibly and with a reputable brand. This is a principle that should be communicated to young people, highlighting information regarding the sometimes unpleasant nature of gambling, such as the likelihood of losing as well as the associated risks.Misleading communication about the sureness of betting can be incredibly detrimental, and could have the effect of putting off young people once they realise that they haven&rsquo;t been given the correct impression of what the reality of gambling is. It has become of paramount importance that this reality is communicated to young people so as to manage their expectations and help them understand the risks better.As with watching and following sports passionately, there lies a risk in not getting the desired result from the game. This can lead to high emotions, which are perhaps slightly higher when money is on the line.This is simple enough to avoid, with the right preventative measures and a commitment to gambling responsibly and self-assuredly. Creating awareness of the social risks of irresponsible gambling requires the participation and accountability of all stakeholders including government, the regulators, operators, media and social institutions. ALSO READ:TOURNAMENT UNDER THREAT:Why KPL Under-20 championship hangs in the balance Given its potential to transform the local sports industry, betting should be seen in its positive light as a beneficial pastime, especially for young people.