Retail chain Uchumi Supermarkets has said it will further delay publishing its financial statements for the financial year ending June 30, 2016. The retailer cited frustrations by Tanzanian and Ugandan authorities in getting information from its subsidiaries which are in liquidation in the two countries.Uchumi said in a statement yesterday that it will delay the release of financials until January 31, 2017. Uchumi Supermarkets Chief Executive Officer Julius Kipng&rsquo;etich said the retailer was facing challenges in obtaining &lsquo;pertinent financial information&rsquo; on the Uganda and Tanzania subsidiaries which were closed down in October 2015 and are under liquidation.Dr Kipng&rsquo;etich said the inadequate information from the subsidiaries has been due to government restrictions as well as logistical challenges at the time of closure. &ldquo;This information is important for the consolidation of the Group&rsquo;s financial accounts,&rdquo; said Kipng&rsquo;etich. &ldquo;At the moment, we are working with the relevant authorities to retrieve the information in as much it might not be significant from management&rsquo;s point of view though important for audit in accordance to the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).&rdquo;This is the second time that the firm is announcing the delay, having sought and received such an extension from the Capital Markets Authority last month. In November, Uchumi said CMA had approved an extension, allowing it to publish its financial statements on December 31, 2016. Ordinarily the firm should have published the results for the year to June 2016 by October 30, 2016.Then, the firm had attributed the delay in publishing its financials to a court case where it was defending a winding up petition filed by its suppliers seeking to wind up the company over non-payment of supplies made to the its outlets.Uchumi owes supplies Sh3.6 billion and another Sh2.5 billion owed to banks. This is against an asset base of Sh6.1 billion, leaving it with a negative asset position. This has seen a number of suppliers stop supplying to its outlets and with near empty shelves, Uchumi has had difficulties attracting shoppers.Uchumi shutdown the Tanzanian and Uganda subsidiaries in October 2015, a move aimed at cutting costs from branches that had high maintenance costs and gave low returns. Kipng&rsquo;etich at the time said the two subsidiaries accounted for about five per cent of the retailer&rsquo;s revenues but 25 per cent of the operating costs.It is also the second year in a row that the firm has sought extension from the capital markets regulator to delay publishing its financials. In 2015, Uchumi was granted a one month extension to publish its results by November 31, from the norm, which is October 30.In the results published on November 28, the retailer posted a loss after tax of Sh3.4 billion compared Sh364 million in 2014. The sinking further into losses was on account of declined revenues and increased operating expenses.Uchumi has been going through turbulent times, with Jonathan Ciano, the person credited for turning the chain around since taking the reigns a decade ago also taking the blame for driving it down.