It will take at least two weeks to identify 33 victims of Saturday night&#39;s horror crash in Naivasha. National Disaster Operations Centre Director Nathan Kigotho said DNA samples from 28 families had been collected to help identify the victims, a number of who were burnt beyond recognition. Family members who gave out their DNA samples were released to go home and asked to return once the process had been concluded. &quot;They will be contacted and helped to correctly identify their relative&#39;s bodies before they are released for burial,&quot; said Kigotho. The identification process of the bodies is going on at the Chiromo Mortuary in Nairobi. ALSO READ: Naivasha victims didn&rsquo;t have to die Doctors hoped to finish collecting DNA samples before undertaking further tests to identify the victims. Six bodies of GSU officers who perished in the crash were identified on Sunday and moved to the Kenyatta University Mortuary. Security camera footage was used to identify five of the 16 passengers who travelled in the matatu that was involved in the crash. The CCTV footage captured by Mololine Services was used by relatives and friends of Samuel Njoroge and his wife Virginia Wambui who were travelling from Maili Sita in Bahati to confirm that the two were inside the ill-fated vehicle. The cameras were also used to identify a middle-aged woman and her baby. The vehicle&#39;s driver,&nbsp;Kibera Guju, and a former employee of the company have also been identified. Mololine Services Chairman Joseph Njoroge said a copy of the CCTV footage has been handed over to the National Transport Services Authority and the police to help trace families of the victims. All the 16 passengers inside the vehicle- nine men, six women&nbsp; and a child -perished in the Saturday night accident. ALSO READ: Road bumps with no signage blamed for deadly night accident in Naivasha The death toll from the crash has risen to 42 after one of the survivors succumbed to his burn injuries at the Kenyatta National Hospital.