Two senior managers at the Kenya Ferry Services (KFS) were yesterday suspended over a week-long crisis at the Likoni Channel crossing following a series of vessel breakdowns. The crisis worsened yesterday as vehicular traffic on both sides of the channel stretched almost two kilometres. Commuters had to wait for hours to board vessels. KFS Managing Director Bakari Gowa confirmed the four-hour transport crisis at the channel, citing mechanical hitches for MV Harambee and MV Kwale. MV Kilindini had been taken for routine maintenance. Mr Gowa said action had to be taken against the senior managers to make way for investigations into the collapse of operations. &quot;When the situation reaches this level, we have to take action. We have suspended two senior officers to allow for thorough investigations into what happened,&quot; Gowa said, denying claims that there was a go-slow and a fuel shortage at the channel. ALSO READ: Mombasa to receive big ships He said the management had deployed a senior engineer to each ferry to closely manage operational teams during the festive season. &quot;We have enough fuel and there is no go-slow although we are investigating all these claims. We have taken a number of measures to ensure smooth operations,&quot; said Gowa. Meanwhile, a lorry belonging to Coca Cola Company yesterday broke down on the MV Likoni ramp while disembarking on the mainland south. Normal service was restored at about 4.30pm when four ferries &ndash; MV Kilindini, MV Harambee, MV Likoni and MV Kwale &ndash; resumed full operations. Jacinta Anyango, a passenger, said it took her more than two hours to board a ferry following the crisis. &quot;This is a crisis that we have never witnessed here,&quot; she protested. Another passenger, Bakari Shambi, said it was disturbing to have no clear information about what had happened to the ferry services. ALSO READ: Mombasa port will not be sold, Ruto assures &quot;We just heard rumours that the workers were on strike but there was no official word,&quot; he noted. Contacted for comment, Dock Workers Union General Secretary Simon Sang ruled out a go-slow, saying the workers had no labour dispute with KFS management. He said preliminary information had indicated there could be shortage of fuel for the ferries.