With the dawn of the 2010 Constitution, a significant feature in the recruitment of key state officers is the use of public interviews. In this process, candidates interested in national office are subjected to live interviews in the full glare of television cameras, and at times, in the presence of a live public audience. In some cases, this is followed by a vetting process by Parliament which is also conducted in public.Among the first of such interviews was the recruitment of the Chief Justice, Deputy Chief Justice, and the judges of the newly-created Supreme Court of Kenya. The interviews were so intense, and at times so full of drama that many candidates left the interview room feeling so publicly humiliated that they vowed never to apply for such jobs. Furthermore, many potential candidates for key government positions have simply refrained from applying for such jobs, fearing similar public humiliation. Consequently, some have questioned the value and wisdom of using such a method.The interview is perhaps the most widely used personnel selection method across the world. This is primarily because the interview provides an opportunity for the employer to test and assess various characteristics of the potential employee, as well as evaluate his or her competencies in diverse fields.When conducted well, the interview has been shown to yield fairly reliable results in assessing the suitability of candidates for various work assignments. However, several studies on the usefulness of the interview as a recruitment tool have revealed low reliability and validity compared with other selection methods. At best, the interview has been found to yield only moderate validity as a personnel selection device &mdash; a matter that has been of concern to human resource managers and recruitment agencies. ALSO READ: Gears shift on highway to 2017Perhaps what should be of particular interest to us is that several characteristics of the interview have been found to impact on the overall reliability of the outcome of the process. These include: the nature and position of the job, the number of interviewers in the panel, the length of the interview, and the structure of the interview, among others. Public interviews, by their very nature, place unusual pressure on both the interviewers and the interviewees.Conscious of the presence of observers, both parties could become unnatural in their conduct. Some easily fall into the temptation of putting on a show rather than attend to the essentials of the interview. For example, we have in the past witnessed situations where some interviewers have literally harassed candidates, perhaps in an attempt to appear knowledgeable or superior.&nbsp;Likewise, some candidates have been dramatic in their conduct, perhaps playing to the gallery. In other situations, some interviewees have been so overwhelmed by the presence of the media that they could hardly express themselves. In either circumstance, it is almost certain that such interviews may not yield the expected outcomes.Considering that we have now adopted public interviews and public vetting as the way to recruit senior public servants, it is important that these be properly structured and managed to ensure the most reliable results. In particular, studies have recommended that for the effective management of any interview, training should be provided to interviewers regardless of whether the interview itself is structured.&nbsp;This is especially necessary when the interview is to be conducted in public. But even more critical, other supplementary tools &mdash; such as psychometrics and second level practical assessments &mdash; should be employed to aid in determining the suitability of successful candidates. Otherwise, as has been shown in the past, we may continuously end up with candidates that are perhaps great at playing to the public gallery, but poor at delivering on assigned national duties.