The mooted Opposition&rsquo;s Super Alliance has become the subject of debate across Nyanza with ODM leaders and supporters backing it. Two governors and five MPs who spoke to The Standard supported the alliance but said they were eagerly waiting to know how the single opposition presidential candidate would be picked without causing a fall-out. Ugenya MP David&nbsp; Ochieng&rsquo; said Kenyans have embraced the Supper Alliance but challenged the principals to move with speed and name their flag bearer by March 2017. &ldquo;Kenyans are ready. It is only the principals delaying them in naming their flag bearer,&rdquo; he said. He added: &ldquo;I personally feel Kenyans should know their Opposition candidate, latest March next year,&rdquo; said&nbsp; Ochieng&rsquo;. ALSO READ: Anxiety as Raila&rsquo;s super alliance takes shape Governors Okoth Obado (Migori) and Cyprian Awiti (Homa Bay) said they were excited by the new move to bring together all Opposition leaders fighting to usher in a new regime next year. But even as the leaders welcomed the alliance, anxiety remained over who will be the flag bearer in 2017. The choice of the opposition candidate has caused jitters in CORD, with each of the three co-principals claiming they were the best suited to face Jubilee. ENDORSED RAILA Whereas ODM has endorsed Raila Odinga for the top seat saying he was the most popular with vast political experience, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has been saying it was time for those he had supported in the past to pay back. On his part, Wetang&rsquo;ula said he is the new broom in the house. Yesterday, a cross-section of leaders said they hoped the principals will handle the issue of flag bearer the way the Rainbow Alliance settled on Mwai Kibaki in 2002. ALSO READ: Anxiety as Raila&rsquo;s super alliance takes shape ODM national treasurer Timothy Bosire captured the mood in the region when he said Kenyans had high expectations in the Super Alliance. &ldquo;Kenyans are waiting to see if this alliance will be the long-awaited saviour, &ldquo; he said. Bosire, a close ally of Raila, said although the alliance idea is in its formation stages, it is something Kenyans would wish to have. He said the current government had failed to achieve its manifesto because of the selfish interest among its leaders. The MP said the Super Alliance should be able to achieve what has been eluding many right-thinking leaders and other Kenyans. &ldquo;We should be able to put aside our selfish interests and set our goals at achieving the needs of these country. Individual needs will be achieved later,&rdquo; said Bosire. He explained that parties have for long been serving individual interests against the wishes of majority Kenyans. ALSO READ: Secrets of Raila&rsquo;s super alliance against Uhuru for 2017 polls &ldquo;Leaders in the alliance should be able to demonstrate that they can work together no matter what; have the interests of the larger society at heart,&rdquo; said. He said the issue of tittles should be among the agendas in the formation of the Supper Alliance. &ldquo;We should all read from the same script because we have missed past leadership because of individuality,&rdquo; he added. &ldquo;This is the sure medicine for Jubilee&rsquo;s misrule,&rdquo; said Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi.