Opposition leader Raila Odinga could be locked out of next year&rsquo;s polls if the electoral agency enforces the elections campaign financing regulations. According to the Elections Campaign Finance Act all candidates and political parties in the next elections are required to submit their campaign finance details to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) within a stipulated time. The commission is supposed to register names of agents, campaign account details and signatories at least eight months before elections. The registration deadline elapsed last Thursday, December 8. However, Raila&rsquo;s Orange Democratic Party (ODM), failed to meet the deadline and instead has filed an application to stop the electoral commission from enforcing the regulations. ALSO READ: Uhuru and Raila to tour Western in vote hunt ODM&rsquo;s Secretary General Senator Agnes Zani argued that the said regulations have not been approved by the National Assembly and complying with them was not possible. She accused IEBC of not adhering to electoral processes as stipulated. &ldquo;The regulations have not been passed in Parliament moreover party primaries have not been conducted. IEBC is not adhering to processes as stipulated,&rdquo; said Zani. The Standard has established that President Uhuru Kenyatta complied with the requirement and submitted the names of agents, account details and signatories. Compiling data IEBC Communications Manager Andrew Limo confirmed that a number of candidates had submitted the details of accounts, agents and names of committee members across the country. The commission said it is compiling the details and will only have data on the same once the process is finalised. ALSO READ: Nyanza MP distances himself from anti Raila leaflets &ldquo;We allowed parties and candidates to submit the forms with details at any of our offices countrywide. We are compiling data and it is only then that it will be possible to know how many complied,&rdquo; said Limo. The commission had drafted the regulations in consultation with the Committee on Delegated Legislation and submitted the same to the National Assembly for approval. The National Assembly is yet to approve the draft regulations as required by law. Jubilee&rsquo;s Executive Director Raphael Tuju confirmed that the party complied. Moses Wetangula&rsquo;s Ford Kenya Party and Kalonzo Musyoka led Wiper Democratic Movement party have also complied.