A physically challenged boy who recently lost his father to cancer emerged the top KCPE candidate in Kajiado County. Miller Githendu Kinyanjui of Acacia Crest scored 431 marks out of 500. Master Kinyanjui, who has speech deficiency, scored &ldquo;As&rdquo; in all the subjects, putting him among top candidates in the country. Speaking to The Standard, 14-year-old Kinyanjui said prayers, faith and determination were the main factors that made him succeed. &ldquo;I always believed I would pass my examination because of my hard work. I thank God for the good results as I expect to join a national school,&rdquo; said Kinyanjui. When The Standard visited Kinyanjui at his uncle&rsquo;s residence where he is being hosted and waiting to undergo a rite of passage, the crew had a difficult time interviewing him. READ MORE Revealed: Full list of private schools cheating to get top grades Top Coast students reveal secrets of success in KCPE Little Sun and Shield outshines giants The boy hopes to become a businessman in future. Tears of joy flowed freely as her mother, Mary Wakiuru, who is a business woman, recalled how she received the news of his son&rsquo;s success. &ldquo;&rsquo;I actually could not believe that my son was the best in the county and also number seven in the country. I thank God for the favour he has done to my family,&rdquo; said the woman who lost her husband three years ago. IMPROVED MEAN SCORE And Jane Wanjiru, 14, scored 415 marks in KCPE to emerge the best girl in Kajiado County. Her institution, Kenvic School situated in Ngong, had more than 15 pupils who scored above 400 marks. Kenvic School head teacher Anthony Munene said the school&rsquo;s mean score had improved to 382.24 this year, up from 380.17 in 2015. The last pupil at the school got 320 marks out of 500. During celebrations at the school, Wanjiku expressed joy, saying she hopes to join Starehe Girls Centre and be an neurosurgeon in future. &ldquo;I thank God and encourage my fellow pupils to always work hard and smart and God will reward their efforts,&rdquo; said Wanjiru. She noted her parents played a big role in nurturing her to perform well. Kenvic Director Medline Gakami said parents and teachers played an instrumental role in instilling discipline and hard work in pupils to perform well. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;