Health Principal Secretary Dr&nbsp;Nicholas&nbsp;Muraguri&nbsp;is building a five-star country home in Mwireri village, Mweiga, that has set tongues wagging. Located in a serene and upcoming holiday homes destination just after Nyeri town, the home whose construction is approaching completion, has been the talk of the town for almost a year. For residents of the scenic Mwireri village, it is not easy to tell whether it is a residential house or a hotel and this debate has dominated the grapevine for months. &ldquo;The debate here has been whether it is a family house or a hotel since it is very big. Even those employed there are confused,&rdquo; said a resident of Mwireri. Perched on one of the many hills dotting the picturesque Mweiga area of Nyeri, the magnificent house is facing the scenic snow-capped Mt Kenya. ALSO READ: Kakamega court jails two elderly Chang'aa sellers It is an elegant maisonette, claiming respectable space on the 19 acres of land secured by a high electric fence. Behind it is the luxurious Aberdare Country Club, an exclusive tourist resort in the Aberdare Ranges and Mt Kenya. Perhaps this explains why some residents are still convinced that this is another tourist retreat. The palatial house, which can be sighted from kilometres away, is a masterly piece of architectural genius in design and in its execution. The sleek grey bricks glisten in the mid-morning sunshine in the pristine countryside. It is as if this ornate piece of art is enjoined with the pleasant morning breeze in telling you, &ldquo;Welcome, here is a true house, a proper home.&rdquo; The dark grey-tiled roof stands on engraved round columns that give you a fascinating eye-catching balcony on the first floor, as part of the front view of the spacious house. Another capacious balcony informs the first floor, overlooking the half-kilometre driveway on which workers were busy working when The Standard on Sunday visited on Wednesday. The house has eight master ensuite bedrooms, which according to the plan seen by The Standard on Sunday, will be fully fitted with rare mod cons, imported from all corners of the world. There are two spacious sitting rooms, a study and several other rooms. Finishing touches From the main road, workers have already started paving the driveway that stretches for nearly 500 metres flanked by trees and secured with an electric fence. &ldquo;This a country home that&nbsp;Muraguri&nbsp;is building. He wants some place where he can relax away from the bustle and hustle of the city,&rdquo; an employee told us about the mega investment. It is a busy construction site with various artisans engrossed in giving it finishing touches &mdash; each after their particular trade in building and construction. Also going on hand in glove with the interior and external finishes is professional landscaping. ALSO READ: Mbeere South residents protest against sub-division of Mwea land A source close to Dr&nbsp;Muraguri&nbsp;intimated the cost of the property at about Sh120 million. It is expected to be ready for occupancy in six months. The Mweiga-Brookside-Kimathi University Road, along which it is situated, is currently being upgraded to bitumen standards. Dr&nbsp;Muraguri&rsquo;s&nbsp;country home is located a few kilometres from former President Mwai Kibaki&rsquo;s retirement home in Mweiga. The tarmacking of the road has elicited interest among property developers, who are already targeting large tracts of land to establish holiday homes and leisure destinations. The area is sparsely populated, with a majority of those living here owning huge tracts of land in what was once part of the fabled White Highlands of the colonial times. Apart from a few individual houses located near Mwireri trading centre, ranches surround the rest of the large farms, which dot the region. Among the prominent residents of the area include the immediate former Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) Chief of Staff Maj Gen Julius Karangi and Athi Water Service Board chairman Wachira Keen. It is also near the Mweiga Blooms, famed for its fresh produce for both local and international market. Another wealthy family from Nyeri is said to be planning to establish a nine-hole golf course in the area, which is witnessing rapid growth. According to land dealers in Nyeri town, an acre of land in the area goes for between Sh1.5 million and Sh2 million, with the prices expected to rise in the coming months when the tarmacking of the road is completed. ALSO READ: Mbeere South residents protest against sub-division of Mwea land Dr&nbsp;Muraguri&nbsp;bought his land from another prominent family in the area. Going by the estimates given by land dealers, the parcel could have cost the PS Sh38 million if he purchased it at Sh2 million per acre. Strategically located During his vetting by Parliament last year before he was appointed PS, Dr&nbsp;Muraguri&nbsp;put his net worth at Sh15 million. Two surveyors and architects familiar with the project put the cost of construction at between Sh70 million and Sh100 million given the high quality of finishing anticipated. In our conservative estimates the entire property is worth Sh120 million. &ldquo;There has been a lot of interest of land in this area, the problem is that no one is willing to sell small portions of land and they want to sell it in bulk. There is an investor selling all his 100 acres and structures in his expansive farm. He is under pressure from his neighbours not to sub-divide it into plots,&rdquo; the dealer told us. The area is strategically located as it is easily accessible from both the Nyeri-Nyahururu highway and the Nyeri-Nanyuki highway. Finding the house was made easy by neighbours who voluntarily offered information. &ldquo;Are you looking for the house&nbsp;Muraguri&nbsp;is constructing?&rdquo; one neighbour asked us at Mwireri trading centre before offering to take us to the house, which is approximately a kilometre away. He said: &ldquo;I used to work there before I quit to start my bodaboda business. Dr&nbsp;Muraguri&nbsp;has assisted so many young people here as majority of youth are now engaged in the construction.&rdquo; ALSO READ: Church leaders want EACC disbanded According to neighbours who spoke to The Standard on Sunday, the house has been a hive of activities especially during weekends when &ldquo;big&rdquo; cars drive in and out of the compound. &ldquo;We are used to seeing big cars coming in and out of the compound since construction started last year. Last week when President (Uhuru) Kenyatta visited the area, we saw some big cars in the evening. We think they were inspecting the construction,&rdquo; said a local who identified himself as Jimmy Mwangi. Most workers at the construction site were reluctant to speak to us but one of them said Dr&nbsp;Muraguri&nbsp;was a frequent visitor to the place. Our tour of the expansive property was cut short by a supervisor who ordered us to leave the compound or he calls police to arrest us for trespass. The Standard on Sunday tried to confirm with Dr&nbsp;Muraguri&nbsp;the value of this property. He, however, did not pick our calls. A text message that we sent to him was equally not responded to.