A Senate watchdog committee was sharply divided yesterday over a letter linking former Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka to land grabbing. While a section of the Public Accounts and Investment Committee, mainly those affiliated to CORD coalition, challenged the admissibility of the document tabled by Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua and sought to have Kalonzo&rsquo;s name expunged from the committee&rsquo;s records, others argued this would be perceived as protecting the former Vice President. There was a protracted verbal tussle as the opposing groups stood firm in support of their positions, with those calling for the admission of the letter written by a lawyer to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission demanding that Kalonzo be investigated and warning that dismissing the crucial evidence would amount to a cover-up. Kiambu Senator Kimani Wamatangi criticised his counterparts Boni Khalwale and Nyamira Senator Kennedy Okong&rsquo;o&rsquo;s argument that the letter should be dismissed as it was not authored by the Machakos Governor and did not provide material evidence to show Kalonzo grabbed the 4,000 hectares of land in Mavoko. Mr Wamatangi argued doing so would amount to double standards as the committee has in the past admitted documents authored by other parties. He said the committee, sitting as a quasi-judicial body, had powers to invite Kalonzo and other parties named in the dossier to clear their names. SAME GOSPEL READ MORE Governor Mutua links Kalonzo and Muthama to land grabbing Party hopping is a political sin, says Kalonzo Apologise now or else... Mutua tells Kalonzo &ldquo;When we preach to Peter, we must preach the same gospel to Paul. The same measure we employ on the lowest of the society who appear before us must be upheld even when the mighty are before us. We cannot just dismiss this letter because it mentions the person of Kalonzo Musyoka,&rdquo; argued Wamatangi. His position was supported by Dr Mutua who said he presented the document to the committee as a result of questions he was asked, particularly by Khalwale, on who were behind land grabbing in Mavoko. &ldquo;This is a document of public interest. Trying to say this document cannot be placed before this committee to me amounts to a cover-up...&rdquo;. &ldquo;I have seen emotions rise due to a person being mentioned. I am seeing an attempt to stop discussion of this document, which I fear would send a message that there are some people in this country who are not to be questioned,&rdquo; protested Mutua. Khalwale had argued that parliamentary precedence had ruled that documents which are not properly signed should not be accepted. He further complained that Mutua&rsquo;s letter made allegations which were not backed by material evidence to show that Kalonzo, a senator, and Mavoko MP Patrick Makau grabbed land. &ldquo;We cannot allow you to use this committee to get to where you did not get by other means. We are not saying that Kalonzo did not steal the land, he may have stolen but we can only affirm that with evidence,&rdquo; Khalwale argued. Machakos Senator Johstone Muthama, an ally of the Wiper Party Leader, also protested saying there was no evidence to back the allegations in the letter. He claimed the document was an attempt to bar Kalonzo from contesting the presidency or any other political office.