President Uhuru Kenyatta has decorated two of his fiercest critics, Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale and ODM Chairman John Mbadi. The two leaders, alongside ODM nominated Senator Janet Ongera, were awarded First Class, Order of the Burning Spear (CBS) for their exemplary service to the nation to mark this year&rsquo;s Jamhuri Day celebrations. President Kenyatta said in a special issue of the Kenya Gazette that he recognised the leaders for their distinguished and outstanding services rendered to the nation in various capacities and responsibilities. The two who are key members of CORD were immediately not available for comment on the awards. SERVICE TO COUNTRY ALSO READ: Uhuru vows to punish NYS looters The President also awarded 42 out of the 47 governors with the prestigious Elder of the Golden Heart (EGH). However, the list did not include governors Isaac Ruto (Bomet), Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni), Amason Kingi (Kilifi), Moses Akaranga (Vihiga) and Ali Roba (Mandera), which according to the Council of Governors, had been awarded the same medals when they served in different capacities in the previous governments. The Council of Governors had nominated the 42 governors as a honour for their services to the county either before the advent of devolution or for their current role as head of counties. To qualify, the counties provided the awards committee with their full profile and what they have done for the society to warrant the awards. Governor Cornel Rasanga of Siaya, for example, was recommended for pioneering and establishing the Public Procurement Administrative Review Board as the secretary and manager before he became Siaya governor.&nbsp; RESEARCH WORK Kericho Governor Paul Chepkwony, 46, was commended for the award because of his research work. ALSO READ: Uhuru vows to punish NYS looters &ldquo;He is a world class researcher, a scholar, an inventor and innovator with six US Patents, one Japanese Patent, one Kenyan Patent and one South African Patent in the field of Pharmaceutical Chemistry,&rdquo; said a recommendation forwarded to the selection committee by the Council of Governors. Governor Awiti was recognised for his &lsquo;exemplary&rsquo; leadership in various NGOs and government. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho was honoured for his efforts to improve the health sector in Mombasa.