All Standard Eight candidates who scored 400 marks and above will join national schools on January 9. The selection exercise will begin next week. This means at least 5,143 out of 942,021 candidates who sat the 2016 Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) exams will join the 103 national school across the country. The arrangement also means those joining secondary schools will not stay at home until February as has been the norm even as the Ministry of Education continues to effect massive reforms in the sector. Meanwhile, Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang&rsquo;i said they could not rank schools and candidates because the law ordering the ministry to do so came into force late. Parliament passed the new law in September. &ldquo;As you are aware, Parliament recently passed a law requiring the ministry to rank schools when releasing national examination results. However, tied to the law was a requirement that we conduct research, consult widely and come up with regulations that provide a basis for the ranking,&rdquo; Dr Matiang&rsquo;i said. He added: &ldquo;Unfortunately, due to the short period between the time the law was enacted and when the KCPE examinations was administered, the ministry was not able to prepare for its implementation.&rdquo; READ MORE Jubilation as Moi Kabarak emerges top again KCPE performance drops as stringent steps to curb cheating bear fruit Anxiety mounts after leading school fails to get KCPE English examination results &nbsp;NATIONAL SCHOOLS Dr Matiang&rsquo;i, while releasing the results yesterday, also assured the public all candidates who scored 400 marks and above will be admitted to national schools irrespective of their gender, region or centre. &ldquo;I assure all parents and guardians that appropriate arrangements are in place to admit the 2016 KCPE examination candidates into public secondary schools based on merit, quotas, equity, affirmative action and candidates&rsquo; choices,&rdquo; the CS said, adding the selection will also ensure children from disadvantaged backgrounds continue with education. Matiang&rsquo;i&rsquo;s declaration is good news for parents with children in private schools. The Kenya Private Schools Association (KPSA) has accused the government of favouring candidates from public schools. KPSA has over the past years accused Education ministry of misinterpreting the principle of affirmative action in Form One selection and accused the government discriminating candidates from private schools. In February last year, data from KPSA showed most positions in at least 75 national schools were taken up by students from public primary schools. Out of the total 15,875 slots in these schools, a massive 12,199 went to candidates from public primary schools (78 per cent).