FROM LEFT: Baringo Senator and Kanu chairman Gideon Moi, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga in Emurua Dikirr constituency, Naroko County, on Wednesday. They accused Deputy President William Ruto of insulting Rift Valley leaders opposed to him. [Photo: Kipsang Joseph/Standard] Deputy President William Ruto has been accused of political intolerance. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi accused the DP of insulting those who did not support his ideologies. &ldquo;He (Ruto) has been disrespecting Rift Valley leaders because he thinks everyone must rally behind him. That is why he has been using foul language against his opponents,&rdquo; said Mr Joho. The ODM deputy party leader noted that the DP had not visited retired President Daniel arap Moi since the 2013 election despite his contribution to Mr Ruto&rsquo;s political career.&nbsp;&nbsp; &ldquo;This is a sign of disrespect. He is what he is today because for Mr Moi. One would have expected the Deputy President to spare some time to visit him, even seek his counsel. But sadly, he hasn&rsquo;t,&rdquo; Joho said Thursday. READ: Jubilee Party to unveil names of county officials &ldquo;And if Ruto can disrespect the person who literally made him, how can he respect the rest of us? It is sad to see him hurl abuses at those who oppose him.&quot; Gideon cautioned the DP against abusing leaders from the region and asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to personally seek the support of locals in his re-election bid. Power brokers &ldquo;The President should come and personally ask for our votes if he wants to be re-elected. We will not accept political power brokers,&rdquo; said Gideon. Joho and Gideon spoke in Emurua Dikirr constituency where they challenged the DP to accommodate dissenting views. Area MP Johanna Ng&rsquo;eno asked Ruto to borrow a leaf from President Kenyatta, who he said had mastered the art of relating with opponents in his backyard. READ: Uhuru woos North Rift residents with multi-billion road projects &ldquo;The Deputy President thinks he is untouchable and that everyone must follow what he says, and that is why he finds it easy to insult those opposed to him,&rdquo; said Mr Ng&rsquo;eno. Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto, who was present, drummed up support for the formation of the proposed National Super Alliance ahead of the 2017 polls. The governor said his Chama Cha Mashinani was ready to join the new alliance. Also present were Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, MPs Patrick Ntutu (Narok West), Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay), Patrick Makau (Mavoko) Zakayo Cheruiyot (Kuresoi South), West Pokot Senator John Lonyangapuo, Kanu Secretary General Nick Salat and former Bureti MP Paul Sang.