Josh (left) and Amos won the Best Video Choreography of the Year award during the Pulse Music Video Awards 2016 held at the Serena Hotel on Thursday. [Photo: Edward Kiplimo/Standard] There was dance and song at the much anticipated annual Pulse Music Video Awards (PMVA) Thursday night at the Serena Hotel in Nairobi.&nbsp; Hosted by radio presenter Shaffie Weru and Radio Maisha&rsquo;s Mwende Macharia, the red carpet event sponsored by The Standard Group, True Blak, Serena Hotel, Superior, Viva and Mash Auto, attracted musicians from far and wide, including Tanzania&rsquo;s Navy Kenzo and Kenyan-based US musician Makiel. Local talent The occasion went well past midnight as musicians and music lovers braved the chill to celebrate and support local talent. Standard Group Finance Director Orlando Lyomu introduced PMVA&rsquo;s journey saying: &ldquo;It is a platform credited for sustaining the local music industry. We want to set the trend and enable upcoming and aspiring musicians feel like they want to be part of it in years to come.&rdquo; Others who also spoke (on pre-recorded interviews) concerning the awards were Nairobian Managing Editor Charles Otieno and Standard Group Head of Marketing Doreen Mbaya, who said the awards aim at building and appreciating local talent. In between performances aired live on television was a special session featuring an informative history of Kenya&rsquo;s music - taking revelers down memory lane with the likes of Daudi Kabaka, Fundi Konde and Fadhili Williams. Celebrities present included Size 8, Papa Dennis, Kymo and Stigah, Jaguar, Red Republik comprising Madtraxx and Mejja. Others were Khaligraph, Dela, Gilad, The Everlast Group, Amos and Josh Rabbit, Femi One, Redsan, Hart The Band, Wahu and Mbusi. Rapper Nyashinski and Dela were the major winners of the night after bagging two awards each. Nyashinski, who was absent but represented by his music video producer VJI also won awards for Male Artist of the Year and Most Viewed Video of the Year for his song Now You Know. &ldquo;It is high time we supported Kenyan music. When you say Kenyan music is dead you have killed it,&rdquo; he tweeted. Other winners were Everlast Group who took home an award for Breakthrough Artist of the Year. Amos and Josh won Best Video Choreography of the Year. Evelyn Wanjiru won Video Vixen of the Year award while Best Group Video of the Year went to Sauti Sol for their album Live and Die in Afrika.&nbsp;