NAIROBI Brand Kenya Director Chris Diaz has been recognised amongst top&nbsp;global leaders who are influencing high standards in marketing and&nbsp;are respected thought leaders in the industry.Mr Diaz, who has been involved in positioning Kenya positively on the global stage, was recognized at a ceremony hosted by the World Marketing Congress and World Brand Congress at the Taj Hotel in Mumbai. During the ceremony, which was attended by top marketing gurus drawn from over 40 countries, Mr Diaz&rsquo;s role in `marketing Africa in global markets as a Trustee of Brand Africa, was also recognized.According to congress organizers, the recognized marketer are leaders who are raising the standards, development&nbsp;and experience of global marketers. The congress considered the leaders&rsquo; contributions to both sustainability and environmental issues&nbsp;and best-in-class marketing strategies. Speaking after receiving the award, Mr Diaz said that the success of African marketing leaders continues to grow and be&nbsp;recognized globally.&ldquo;We have many strong brands and marketers in Africa who are influencing more investments and tourists&nbsp;into Kenya and the wider African market. Africa has great strength of marketers. We have been championing modern marketing solutions and trends which include digital marketing which is transforming marketing strategies of most brands. This is making Africa compete in the global marketing space with world-class standards,&rdquo; the Brand Kenya director, who is also the Marketing Director of national carrier Kenya Airways, noted.&nbsp;Mr Diaz was the first marketing leader from Africa to serve on the board of the Chartered Institute of Marketing UK. He is also a fellow of the Marketing Society of Kenya and has a wealth of experience been working with multiple segments and industries.&nbsp;&ldquo;There are huge opportunities for marketing in building African brands, as well as international brands entering the Africa markets. We need to invest in strong marketing teams as the demand for marketing as a career grows. There is need for more investments in&nbsp;training and development for global marketers,&rdquo; he added.Mr Diaz has been positioning Kenya at leading African` conferences at the United Nations, as well as Harvard and Oxford Universities. He has a global network that has been attracting investors and new business into the region.He called for more youth development partnerships, entrepreneurship marketing, sports marketing and wildlife protection programs focusing on the future of Africa.&ldquo;Upcoming leaders in&nbsp;both digital and marketing development will position us even more strongly in the global marketplace,&rdquo; he argued.The congress also had panels to discuss the future of marketing trends including digital best solutions. Mr Diaz participated in one of the panels, in which he discussed the importance of intra Africa marketing and global brand investments in creating employment opportunities in Africa through strong hospitality offerings and well trained marketers in the region.&nbsp;He expressed confidence that Africa&rsquo;s tourism numbers will surpass the nearly 60 million visitors annually, as the brand experience, culture, destinations and great tourist attractions are well marketed globally.