As we bid farewell to 2016 and usher in 2017, we have every reason to be optimistic. The country has had its share of challenges and some of them still persist to-date.So this optimism is not because we have surmounted those challenges, but rather that new beginnings in a way instil in us a renewed sense of hope and of triumph. Doctors in public hospitals have boycotted their duties for the past one month over a 2013 Collective Bargaining Agreement. This has resulted in deaths and untold suffering for many who cannot afford healthcare in private hospitals.One of the latest casualties of the strike is a pregnant woman who died at Yala sub-county hospital while being operated on by a clinical officer.Kenyans deserve a better start in the New Year. Ending the strike would be a good gift for the suffering multitudes. An honest and open dialogue with the striking medics would be a good starting point. ALSO READ: As Kenyans, we are victims of our own idiocyThis year has been plagued by industrial action in almost every sector. This has had devastating effects on the economy in the long run. And the University Academic Staff Union are threatening to continue with the routine come January next year. But this need not be the case.The New Year promises to be highly charged, as the country prepares for polls in August. The stakes couldn&rsquo;t be higher. Because of the competitive nature of our politics, there is bound to be boisterous rancour as the candidates jostle for votes. These could lead to violence and injury and even death.No doubt, past elections have sowed needless enmity and created deep divisions in the country. Those vying for various posts need to campaign on a platform of ideas and how to move the country forward. The electorate should be able to see through the veil deceit from our politicians.It should not be a period of playing the tribal card against political rivals. As important as elections are, they should not be at the expense of our precious lives. Never again should blood be shed on the platform of political competition.And political competition should not be done at the expense of economic growth. In the post-poll violence of 2007, investments worth billions of shillings were destroyed as political goons and hirelings ran amok.Generally, the economy tends to slow down every year there is an election. This hurts investors.And like before, the investment community has been anxious in the run-up to the August 8 elections. ALSO READ: Legislators have let Kenyans downThat hurts the economy and kills the much-needed jobs for our youth.Most investors adopt a wait-and-see approach, a situation that hurts job creation.The economic gain and the advantage from high-level visits by Pope Francis, US President Barack Obama and even hosting the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development can be swept away in one fell swoop.It is important to note that elections come and go, but Kenya is here to stay.So whereas the elections will define 2017, we owe it to ourselves to ensure that things are different: that despite our political persuasions, the centre will continue to hold; that the IEBC and other players in the elections will ensure that the majority will have their way and the minority will have their say.