President&nbsp;Uhuru&nbsp;Kenyatta has assured Rift Valley residents that he would endorse his deputy William&nbsp;Ruto&nbsp;for the presidency in the&nbsp;2022&nbsp;General Election. At the same time, the President dismissed claims of infighting in Jubilee Party. &ldquo;I appeal to Rift Valley residents to vote for Jubilee in the 2017 General Election. There is no power struggle in Jubilee and I assure Rift Valley residents that I will support my brother&nbsp;Ruto&nbsp;to take over from me in the&nbsp;2022&nbsp;General Election,&rdquo; he said during a tour of Kericho yesterday. He said the Jubilee government, in three years, has managed to transform lives through development projects in health, education and other sectors. &ldquo;The opposition is not keen on transforming the lives of Kenyans unlike the Jubilee government. In just three years we have manged to achieve what they did not since independence,&rdquo; he said. The President also appealed to James Finlays and Unilever Tea Company to surrender land for expansion of Kericho town into city status. ALSO READ: Secrets of Raila&rsquo;s super alliance against Uhuru for 2017 polls He launched the Kericho-Kipchimchim- Thesalia and Brooke Chepseon- Kebeneti roads which is expected to ease traffic along Kisumu-Kericho-Nairobi Highway. Ruto&nbsp;on his part, assured the President that South Rift was a Jubilee zone and urged the residents to shun the Opposition&rsquo;s divisive and tribal politics. &ldquo;Kericho residents belong to Jubilee Party, there is no room for any other party here such as Naswa or ODM. They will stick to JP because it&rsquo;s the party they believe in and don&rsquo;t want to gabble with their political lives,&rdquo; said&nbsp;Ruto. The DP defended the Jubilee administration&rsquo;s development record citing construction of roads across the country, provision of medical equipment to public hospitals, implementation of the last mile electricity programme and scrapping of maternity fees among others. &ldquo;The Jubilee government is not gambling with the lives of Kenyans. We know what we are doing and the focus is to implement development projects aimed at transforming the lives of Kenyans,&rdquo; said&nbsp;Ruto. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen dismissed the Opposition saying they lack robust policies. He claimed the Opposition wants to amend the Constitution for their selfish gain should they win the elections. ALSO READ: Aspirants disown Uhuru's 2017 regional campaign co-ordinator &ldquo;Our opponents have expressed clear desire to amend the Constitution should they be elected. You should reject their policies come 2017 and support Jubilee to advance development,&rdquo; Mr Murkomen said. The President was accompanied by Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot, Ainamoi MP Benjamin Langat, Bureti MP Leonard Sang, Soin/Sigowet Justus Kemei among other leaders.