A gubernatorial aspirant in Embu County who has been a key loyalist and supporter of Jubilee Party has quit in a huff, citing the botched nomination of interim officials. Kithinji Kiragu who is perceived as one of the key contenders on Friday announced that he was leaving the party, a few days after he registered and paid Sh100,000 as an aspirant for the position of the governor on its ticket. Kiragu said he spent the last three days in campaigns for elections of interim officials and was shocked that the process was bungled up. He described the elections as &quot;mucky, chaotic, thuggish and marred by propaganda&quot;. &quot;Virtually all the key players want to unorthodoxly capture the Jubilee Party secretariat for the purpose of serving their selfish political interests. They have neither the focus on JP goals nor the interests of the nation,&quot; pointed Kiragu who is a public sector management consultant. ALSO READ: Jubilee nightmare as chaos rocks county leaders&rsquo; elections Kiragu said his support for President Uhuru Kenyatta and for the party&#39;s mission and objectives remained unwavering despite decamping from his party. He said he had to undertake the tough choice as he was afraid that the current JP politics could serve to entrench forces of disunity, conflicts and under development of the people. &quot;I plead to President Kenyatta to appreciate aspirants who support him while they are not in JP for reasons similar to mine where the exercise was neither noble nor ethical,&quot; said Kiragu. He said the move was sudden and unforeseen hence could not immediately reveal his next vehicle for the Embu top seat. Kiragu said he will consult his family, community and spiritual leaders and political advisers on the best course of action as he still firmly in the race for the gubernatorial position. Chaos erupted on Tuesday during elections of county JP officials as the leaders could not agree on the mode leading to the abortion of the process. ALSO READ: Yet another day of shambolic Jubilee elections