Anuwat Kobnampetch from Thailand samples coffee berries at Mukurwe-ini in Nyeri County last month. Kenya&#39;s coffee will be the major highlight of next year&#39;s international coffee expo. [Photo:Kibatia Kihu/Standard] Kenya&#39;s coffee will be the highlight of a major international exhibition in the US between April 17 and 23 next year. The exhibition is expected to expose the country&#39;s coffee to the international market and promote direct marketing of what used to be Kenya&#39;s major export at independence. The event is being organised by African Coffee Association (AFCA), the Ministry of Agriculture&#39;s Coffee Directorate and Specialty Coffee Association of America (SCAA). Kenya, a member of SCAA, has been participating in similar exhibitions for the past 16 years, but last year won the 2017 portrait country status, which gives the country exclusive rights to showcase and promote her coffee in the US for the year. The initiative is expected to bring better fortunes for farmers at a time when the sector is grappling with numerous challenges ranging from unpredictable prices, coffee wars and to rampant theft. READ: Major foreign buyers eye coffee from Embu farmers Marketing window Interim head of the Coffee Directorate, Grenville Kiplimo Melli, said the opening of the marketing window abroad during the expo will enhance visibility and open more market opportunities. &quot;Our coffee will be branded and be on display in major supermarkets, retails outlets and on bill boards hence attracting potential buyers in international markets,&quot; Melli explained. In addition, Melli said the commodity will be brewed and served in major hotels and coffee houses in the city of Seattle, Washington, during the entire portrait event. &quot;Commercial adverts of Kenyan coffee will be strategically placed in the media by SCAA in the US for a period of six months,&quot; Mr Kiplimo told the Standard. Kenya&#39;s coffee will also be branded in SCAA website for a period of six months for visibility and subsequent inquiries. In addition, the expo will offer a forum for producers to tell their story to over 12,000 of the world&#39;s top coffee industry professionals. Of most importance to Kenya, the expo will link farmers with American buyers for direct coffee sales. &quot;One of our main objectives in participating in this expo is to cushion farmers against adverse prices fluctuations. Americans have been paying premium prices for the commodity,&quot;he said. Coffee farmers are elated at this rare chance. Papias Githui, a farmer affiliated to Rumukia said he and fellow farmers expect an increase in sales volumes once the expo kicks off to boost their meagre earnings. &quot;Governments should consider increasing value addition from the current 10 to about 30 per cent on our produce to attract better prices,&quot; he said. Stephen Karanja from Gikanda Co-operative in Mathira said Kenya should consider developing and executing a strategy for direct coffee sales. And in buildup to the event, a delegation from United States, Brazil, Columbia, Canada, Thailand, Ukraine, Australia and China has visited several Coffee Co-operative societies in central region. SCAA sales manager, Lisa Pacini, said the demand for coffee in the world has increased over the years.&nbsp; She said she expects the expo to bridge the gap between producers and consumers and&nbsp; improve production in coffee-growing countries. &quot;America intends to buy already milled coffee at international rates which it will process, brand and package in respective countries,&quot; Pacini told The Standard moments after touring the Othaya farmers co-operative society coffee milling plant. She said prior to portrait status, Kenya had hosted 30 buyers from US dealers and traders who had visited individual coffee farmers, milling plants and warehouses in a visit dubbed &quot;Original Trip&quot;. Every year a coffee producing country is celebrated by SCAA calendar of event as a Portrait Country. Founded in 1982, SCAA is the world&#39;s largest coffee trade association with over 3,000 member companies drawn from 40 countries. The SCAA&#39;s annual conference is held in a different US city each year and is coffee industry&#39;s largest gathering and exhibition.