Nyamira Senator Kennedy Okong&rsquo;o has sued the electoral body for not taking disciplinary action against politicians engaged in premature campaigns. The senator asked the court to compel the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to publish a list of all errant political parties and candidates who have already embarked on early campaigns before the official kick-off, saying they are committing electoral offences. Among the leaders Mr Okong&rsquo;o wants punished are CORD leaders Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka, Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula, Maendeleo Chap Chap leader Alfred Mutua, Senator Hassan Omar and Boni Khalwale, who he said have embarked on early campaigns in contravention of the Electoral Act. Okong&rsquo;o on December 7 threatened to sue President Uhuru Kenyatta, his deputy William Ruto, Odinga, Musyoka and Wetang&rsquo;ula for violating election laws and holding early campaigns. Yesterday, in an urgent application filed at the High Court, the senator through lawyer Zachary Mwambi, said IEBC should be ordered to penalise politicians who have contravened the elections laws and the electoral code of conduct. ALSO READ: Unseating incumbents in Africa calls for planning &ldquo;I am apprehensive and fearful that as we are heading into the 2017 General Election period, a section of parties may be sidelined as others have started early campaigns an action which is not compliant with the electoral code of conduct,&rdquo; Okong&rsquo;o stated in the court papers. He said because of early campaigns, supporters of a number of governors, senators and MPs have clashed resulting in bloodshed. He said the electoral agency has failed to be transparent and accountable in managing the political affairs of the country and laying a foundation for free and fair elections, part of which is to disallow early campaigns. Okong&rsquo;o told the court that the early campaigns have led to rising political temperatures and the court should direct the commission to prohibit early campaigns. &ldquo;Matters of General Election are of paramount importance and any failure in complying with any Act of Parliament, may be an avenue for national turmoil, chaos and integration of national polity,&rdquo; he said. He further said a number of public servants who intend to run for political offices will be discriminated upon due to the ongoing premature campaigns. ALSO READ: Wiper endorses Kalonzo for top seat as he eyes coalition ticket