Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho has attacked the Independent Policing Oversight Authority (IPOA) saying it is embarrassing and intimidating police officers. Kibicho said the ministry will not allow police to work under intimidation and embarrassment. He told police not to fear IPOA during their work and do their job without favour. &ldquo;Tell IPOA this country belongs to all of us. We all have rights and must be respected. We are not going to allow IPOA to parade and embarrass police officers,&rdquo; he said. While addressing a meeting of senior officers in Nairobi, the PS said police who are on duty usually don&rsquo;t have time to make decisions on their lives and death. ALSO READ: Kenya to crash proscribed gangs ahead of 2017 polls &ldquo;We must continue to say it. Iko maneno ingine ambayo ni mbaya (there are some bad issues) and we are not apologetic about this,&rdquo; he said. The agency has in the past accused Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet of blocking their probe on police misconduct by directing police officers not to cooperate in the investigations. IPOA also claimed Boinnet had instructed his officers not to allow their investigators to any police premises without his authority. Chairman Macharia Njeru led other board members in attacking Boinnet saying he is trying to control the affairs of an independent agency. &ldquo;IPOA is independent and so are its investigations and it is in bad faith for the Inspector General to expect IPOA to carry out its functions through his office,&rdquo; said Njeru. He said the IG&rsquo;s actions have grave implications on IPOA&rsquo;s ability to hold the police to account as envisaged under the Constitution and enabling legislation. He added that the Internal Affairs Unit of the police has been denied resources and space to operate independently and only exists on paper with staff that is denied capacity to implement its mandate. &ldquo;There is clearly resistance to infuse professionalism within the National Police Service and to allow accountability mechanisms to function as envisaged under our laws,&rdquo; said Njeru. ALSO READ: AG moves to save Interior PS Kibicho from 3-month jail term He insisted that the highest police leadership refuses to change while projecting an image of transforming the police service yet it is business as usual. He said IPOA is committed in exercising its mandate as by law and will remain professional and firm. &ldquo;Consequently, IPOA will recommend to the ODPP for criminal charges to be instituted against officers obstructing its officers from carrying out their lawful functions.&rdquo;