CORD leader Raila Odinga stormed Deputy President William Ruto&#39;s South Rift backyard and asked locals not to re-elect Jubilee. Raila, who addressed rallies in Bureti, Belgut and Ainamoi constituencies in Kericho County, said he visited after local elders invited him to help the community fight the Sh38 billion Itare Dam project, which he said will negatively affect them if implemented. According to Raila, the Kipsigis Council of Elders fear construction of the dam will affect the economy of the region as it will destroy the environment in eight counties in the Lake Victoria water basin. Speaking at Kericho Green Stadium, Raila at the same time warned of chaos should the August 2017 General Election be rigged. &quot;President Kenyatta is wasting time talking about peaceful elections when the emphasis should be placed on free, fair and credible elections. Kenyans will not stand another stolen election,&quot; Raila said. &quot;There will be no problem if the Government conducts free elections. However, if the President and his deputy rig the elections again, it will be a recipe for chaos,&quot; said Raila. READ MORE Treasury mulls fresh bond issue as it seeks Sh152b to patch budget deficit Dida: I'll use religion to fight graft Biwot endorses DP Ruto for 2022 presidential bid &quot;The other day, while in Budalang&#39;i Constituency, the Deputy President boasted of how the 2013 election result was doctored in favour of President Kenyatta and himself. That was an admission they stole the election. However, they will not get away with it this time round.&quot; &nbsp; Meanwhile, Odinga expressed concern over what he termed delayed appointment of electoral commissioners. &quot;Jubilee has a hidden agenda, there is no other reason the positions were re-advertised. Their aim is to hand-pick commissioners who will help them steal the election,&quot; he said. Siaya Senator James Orengo warned that if the Government attempts to interfere with next year&#39;s elections, the Opposition will withdraw and conduct a parallel election. &quot;Jubilee must allow Kenyans to exercise their democratic right to choose leaders of their choice without any interference,&quot; said Orengo.&nbsp; Meanwhile, the ODM leader said he had toured the region to warn locals over an impending ecological disaster if the controversial dam will be constructed. He said the dam will affect tea farming, the region&#39;s main economic mainstay. &quot;Today I am not here to talk ODM politics but to cry for the current and future generations of Kipsigis community who will be adversely affected by the dramatic climatic change that will be brought about by the dam. The damage the dam will cause is real,&quot; said the former Prime Minister. Others accompanying Raila were Kisumu Governor Jack Raguma, Kilifi&#39;s Amason Kingi, Josphat Nanok of Turkana and John Nyagarama of Nyamira, among others.&nbsp; This came as the Deputy President urged all leaders, irrespective of their political affiliations, to commit themselves to ensuring peaceful and credible elections. &quot;The President has demonstrated the commitment by Jubilee leaders to engage in peaceful activities ahead of 2017 elections and the Opposition should follow suit,&quot; said Ruto. His sentiments were supported by MPs allied to Jubilee Party who said the Opposition had sensed defeat and is now preparing ground for violence. &quot;It is the responsibility of all leaders and Kenyans in general to ensure free, fair and credible elections,&quot; said Ruto who spoke at the African Inland Church (AIC) in Kapenguria town yesterday during the installation of Bishop David Kaseton and his assistant Philip Loyareng who will now take charge of West Pokot region.