ODM has rejected an appeal by 10 rebels, paving the way for by-elections just eight months to the next elections. The special session of the National Governing Council (NGC) said the expelled members violated the ODM constitution and the Political Parties law and must face the electorate. This means the electoral commission must now seek funds from the Treasury to conduct the by-elections. ODM chairman John Mbadi said the rebels were not remorseful when they appeared before the disciplinary committee. They are Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya, Kisii deputy governor Joash Maangi, Kwale Woman MP Zainab Chizudga and MPs Masoud Mwahima (Likoni), Samuel Arama (Nakuru Town West), Ababu Namwamba (Budalang&#39;i), John Waluke (Sirisia), Steve Kariuki (Mathare), Isaac Mwaura (nominated) and Nairobi&#39;s Viwandani MCA Samuel Nyangwara.&nbsp; &quot;We have followed the due process in expelling the rebels and the decision is final,&quot; he said. He added: &quot;We hereby resolve the appellants have not raised any cogent reasons and/or sufficient grounds to warrant NGC to vacate its earlier decision and thus this special session of NGC resolves to uphold its decision of October 31 that they be expelled from the party,&quot; &nbsp;Mbadi said. READ MORE Hopefuls for IEBC top jobs taken to task on integrity Fresh attempt to ensure zero rigging in Kenya's 2017 polls South African firm loses Sh2.5 billion ballot papers tender case against IEBC Deputy party leader Wycliffe Oparanya said the rebels had a chance to defend themselves but did not show cause why they should not be expelled. &quot;The disciplinary committee followed the legal process and we hope the registrar will take action and communicate to the speakers for the seats to be declared vacant,&quot; said the Kakamega governor. ODM has already written to the Registrar of Political Parties Lucy Ndung&#39;u over the decision to expel the 10. Ms Ndung&#39;u confirmed receiving the resolution of the NGC and is now expected to communicate to the rebels before de-registering them. &quot;The affected members will be de-registered once we have communicated the decision of the party to them. Then they will be de-registered immediately,&quot; Ndung&#39;u said but clarified it is ODM&#39;s duty to write to the Speakers of respective Houses on the decision to expel the members.