In the past three years, the holiday destinations for urban-dwelling Kenyans have changed. At first, families would troop to the Coast for the entire Christmas and New Year festive period, with hotel prices and bus and flight fares doubling.Beach parties were a permanent fixture as thousands streamed into popular public beaches where recreation activities were in plenty. However, things have changed. Even though coastal hotels have reported good bookings by domestic tourists, the many entertainment events that were associated with the festive season are no more. In fact, the only big New Year event taking place in Mombasa is the Jump Off All White party concert that will be held at Moonshine on the New Year&rsquo;s Eve.The all-night beach concert at the new Nyali joint that was formerly known as Reef Hotel has over 15 celebrities booked for performance among them award-winning prolific singer Gilad who will be performing alongside The Superband, VJ Space and DJ Naze. The beach spot will also be hosting a pool party the following day besides having a family event.&ldquo;Most beach hotels stopped hosting Christmas and New Year events due to security related issues and this sort of killed the fanfare that was associated with festivity parties in Mombasa. However, we have put together a wonderful concert and we can assure you that security is guaranteed,&rdquo; says Chacha, the entertainment manager at Moonshine. ALSO READ: Why Raila and Uhuru are fighting for Coast and Western&ldquo;Jump up is a great concept that will see artistes and deejays share the stage in a non-stop show expected to net 5,000 participants. The following day we will have a pool party that is estimated to attract 2,000 people. We will have a bikini modeling show aimed at entertaining the more vibrant youthful lot,&rdquo; he added.NAIROBI THRILLS STILL ONNot all Nairobians are going to Coast for the holidays and knowing this so well, entertainment joints in the city have braced themselves with enticing plans that will help them net clients. One of those joints is Club Asylum on Baricho Road that has sealed a deal with Congolese rumba star Bozi Boziana who jets into the country next week for the New Year Eve concert.Arguably one of the best and consistent ballad singers among Congolese musicians, Bozi Boziana will be returning to Nairobi for the seventh time, his last performance being last year.&ldquo;I am always delighted to be in Kenya. It has become my second home owing to its immense love for our music and the friendly nature of its people.&rdquo;&ldquo;Our fans should expect nothing short of our internationally acclaimed evergreen hit songs among them Double Double and Selemani that will take them down memory lane,&rdquo; says Bozi Boziana.&ldquo;This will be my New Year gift to Nairobians. I have a full band with me and we have prepared adequately to make sure that our funs get the best there can be,&rdquo; he remarks. ALSO READ: Toure fined Sh6.9m for drink driving MACHAKOS AWAITS YOUAnother town expected to attract many visitors is Machakos where activities around the Machakos People&rsquo;s Park have breathed live to the town.Last year during the Christmas and New Year festivities, the Machakos People&rsquo;s Park attracted over 8,000 visitors with six mega concerts taking place at the venue during that period.This year, a number of shows have been marked for the amusement park with local and regional stars expected to perform.&ldquo;The climax of this will be the New Year concert that will feature all the top gospel stars. This will be a family function that will see us do spectacular New Year fireworks at the park,&rdquo; remarks Victor Muniafu, the Machawood CEO.&ldquo;The thing about Machakos is that it is new Nairobi and families can always drive down here with ease and enjoy the best at such lower rates than they could have had any whereas. We now have the crowd that used to go to Naivasha coming to Machakos town for fun and recreation activities,&rdquo; he concludes.&nbsp; ALSO READ: Mombasa gears up for its own tourism board to grow sector