The shocking confession of a man who claims the police have been using him to lure people to their death has exposed how the Kenya&rsquo;s security officials wield the power of life and death over civilians. The man, who has since disappeared and may have been killed while waiting to be put under witness protection by the Independent Police Oversight Authority (IPOA), offers a glimpse into underhand dealings within the police force. They link individuals to criminal activities with the aim of eliminating them. Over the years, Kenyans have died in mysterious circumstance, with police accused of presiding over extra-judicial killings. From Coast to Western, North Eastern to Rift Valley, Eastern to Central, there are unexplained deaths of Muslim clerics, politicians, journalists, businessmen, motorcyclists and even hawkers. One of the latest high profile victim whose murder remains puzzling is businessman Jacob Juma. Despite the police promising to get to the bottom of his killing after his bullet-riddled body was found on May 5, the light has dimmed on the investigation, with more deaths having been reported, perhaps to erase any existing evidence. ALSO READ: Former KDF officer brutally murdered in Gilgil The killing of lawyer Willy Kimani and his client and a taxi driver in July was also linked to police officers. Four Administration Police Fredrick Leliman, Leonard Mwangi, Stephen Chebulet and Silvia Wanjiku have been charged with the murders. Police denial In Mombasa, vocal Muslim clerics who include Samir Khan and Aboud Rogo were killed in shocking circumstances. Another cleric Mohammed Kassim mysteriously disappeared. In Tonny&rsquo; confession (see separate story), senior police officers identify their target, get their phone contacts and photographs which they share with those they recruit to lure them. Once the police kill the target and dump the bodies, it does not end there. In the event the bodies are found, families are intimidated into submission and forced to swear affidavits not to do post-mortems or pursue the matter. National Police Service Spokesperson George Kinoti expressed shock over the the man&rsquo;s confession, saying he needed to be furnished with more information. He said mysterious death must be investigated, a post-mortem report done and an inquest file opened. &ldquo;What you are telling me is strange and very serious. Do you have the names, when they died and even talked to their families or the individuals mentioned by your source? If it is true, it is shocking.&rdquo; ALSO READ: Family of murdered university lecturer seeks justice He added: &ldquo;If you can furnish me with details I will be able to take to task the OCPD and all those responsible where such is opening but I cannot confirm anything now.&rdquo;