A man who delivered a letter to activist Boniface Mwangi on the murder of businessman Jacob Juma now claims he works in Deputy President William Ruto&#39;s office. Douglas Nyakundi Nyakundi, who was arraigned in a Nairobi court yesterday and remanded for four days, claimed his boss, whom he only identified as Rono, has information on Juma&#39;s mysterious murder in May this year. Although he was not required to plead to any charges, Senior Principal Magistrate Teresiah Nyangene ordered that Nyakundi be remanded to allow the police to complete investigations into his claims. According to the police, Nyakundi delivered a letter to Mr Mwangi in which someone allegedly confesses they planned and executed Juma&#39;s murder. The suspect, who claims to be a spy and a messenger in the office of the DP, told the activist he had been sent to him by Rono. Affidavits filed in court state that the letter, titled &quot;self-confession&quot;, gives details of Juma&#39;s murder and even names people purported to have been behind it. READ MORE Tharaka Nithi residents demonstrate over DP Ruto's remarks Governor Ruto tells DP William Ruto 2017 bid not assured Forget your 2022 presidential bid, Governor Ruto tells DP Ruto In a sworn affidavit, Philip Mwangi, an investigator at Kilimani Police Station, urged the court to give the police 14 days to conduct in-depth investigations into the claims as it seeks to find out of if indeed the two men work at the DP&#39;s office and the authenticity of the letter. The officer said Nyakundi was arrested on November 30, 2016 and that time was not enough to piece together the details in the case. He further said they were planning to charge him with extortion for having demanded an unspecified amount of money from Mwangi so that Rono could give him more information to defend himself in a defamation suit filed by the DP. The officer further said Nyakundi claimed Rono had credible information that Mwangi could be killed though a &quot;stage-managed road accident&quot;.