The pain and gloom that engulfed the country following the Naivasha fire tragedy in which 40 people died put a damper on the 53rd Jamhuri day celebrations marked yesterday. There were other sideshows as the police engaged demonstrators on Moi Avenue in Nairobi. As usual, the President took the opportunity to highlight the achievements of his administration. President Uhuru Kenyatta exuded confidence his administration had achieved a lot despite the Opposition&#39;s allusion to the contrary. Kenyatta pointed out that in line with the independence goal of eradicating illiteracy, positive input in the education sector had catapulted the country to position 30 worldwide and top in Africa. Indeed, that is an achievement that can be gauged for, as the President noted, 9 out of every 10 children are in school. There are other positive gains through the eradication of examination fees and the primary school electrification project. President Kenyatta also enumerated his Government&#39;s social projects that aim to improve the welfare of youth, women, the elderly and the disadvantaged in society. These include the 30 per cent allocation of Government procurement to youth and women, the Inua Jamii initiative and the National Youth Service. The nobility of these initiatives was however sullied when a few individuals in Government chose to misappropriate the funds set aside for them. Despite public outcry, the Government has demonstrated little willingness to arraign those involved in court, further casting doubt on its commitment and the President&#39;s assurance that a lot has been achieved despite the theft. ALSO READ: Transport Ministry to blame for road accidents, says President Uhuru The youth of Kenya feel short-changed yet, as the president noted, they are the drivers of Kenya&rsquo;s transformation and need support to really experience that sense of belonging. The Government should go beyond the now routine talk about reviving industries to create job opportunities for the youth. Pan Paper, Rivatex, Kicomi and many other companies that were driven under can be revived to great effect. The ICC question is so much water under the bridge now but President Kenyatta seemed to be setting the stage for Kenya&rsquo;s exit from the ICC alongside countries like South Africa, Burundi and Gambia that have expressed their desire to quit. The engagement with the ICC was voluntary; hence careful consideration should be made before taking drastic action that could prove counter-productive in the fullness of time. The President also took issue with foreign countries he believes are using Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) to fund the Opposition with the aim of influencing the outcome of next year&rsquo;s elections. Even as such plans cannot be entertained, that should not be the excuse for the Government to stifle NGOs as has been the case in the past. The crowning moment of the day was the President&rsquo;s allusion to conceding defeat if he lost the 2017 elections. His call for peaceful campaigns must be taken seriously; it is all that Kenyans pray for. We must guard against leaders who want to divide this great country of ours. There must never be reason to go through what the country experienced in the 2007 post-election eruption in which more than 1,000 Kenyans lost their lives. The beauty of democracy is learning to disagree on issues but remaining friends. We must all be our brothers and sisters&#39; keepers for, at the end of the day, Kenya belongs to all of us.