NAIROBI: The Government will take action against all people involved in the National Youth Service (NYS) scandal, the President has said. While addressing hundreds of people who attended the 53rd Jamhuri Day celebrations at the Nyayo National Stadium, President Uhuru Kenyatta&nbsp;urged Kenyans to differentiate between the positive impact NYS had made on thousands of young people and the scandal associated with it. &quot;I would like to urge Kenyans to draw a clear distinction between the positive impacts of NYS programmes and deplorable mismanagement orchestrated by individuals who were determined to railroad its success,&quot; he said. Although several former senior government officials and business people have been charged in relation to the NYS scandal, the blame game still continues as the National Assembly Public Accounts Committee investigates the theft. Among those who have been charged are former Devolution Principal Secretary Peter Mangiti, former NYS Director-General Nelson Githinji, his deputy Adan Harakhe, businessman Ben Gethi and businesswoman Josephine Kabura. ALSO READ: Transport Ministry to blame for road accidents, says President Uhuru According to the President, those who were involved in the theft but who are still at large will also have their day in court. &quot;Please have comfort that all those involved in pilfering resources earmarked for our youth will be held to account,&quot; the Head of State said. FRAUDULENT PAYMENTS Mr Gethi was alleged to be the mastermind behind the Sh791 million theft from NYS, while Ms Kabura owned four companies allegedly used to fleece millions of shillings from the institution. According to prosecution, the NYS loot was siphoned through fraudulent payments to certain companies which were working in collusion with senior officials at the Devolution ministry and NYS headquarters. Former Devolution Cabinet Secretary Anne Waiguru was adversely mentioned as part of the conspiracy to defraud the NYS but when she appeared before PAC, she denied knowing Kabura or being part of the theft. Ms Waiguru instead named Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and Deputy President William Ruto&#39;s aide Faruk Kibet as some of the people who benefited from the theft. ALSO READ: President Uhuru, DP Ruto end Rift tour, accuse governor of sabotaging projects Despite the grand theft that rocked his Jubilee government, the President noted that the projects under NYS had benefited and employed thousands of young people since 2013. &quot;Since 2013, NYS programmes have employed 91,334 cohorts spread over 21 constituencies across the country. The programmes have expended Sh5.4 billion of which Sh3.4 billion has been paid out as direct wages to those recruited while the balance has gone towards savings,&quot; he said. Uhuru added that the Government had given special emphasis to young women who through the &quot;Huduma Kitchen&quot; have received Sh365 million in financial support.