At least 270 MPs stole or wasted billions of public funds disbursed to their constituencies in their first full year in office. A report by Auditor General Edward Ouko says MPs money squandered Sh3.85 billion under the Constituency Development Fund &ndash; the multibillion-shilling kitty that MPs get to implement community projects within their constituencies. The money is almost equivalent to the conditional grant that counties get to run referral hospitals every year. The 285 audit reports seen by The Standard on Sunday reveals the dubious money-swindling schemes that the MPs deployed in their first year in office soon after the National Treasury released Sh23 billion to the Fund. The reports indict 273 constituencies and cleared 12. The reports of five constituencies &ndash; Kikuyu, Konoin, Baringo Central, Magarini and Kibra &mdash; are not part of the cache that was made public. There are 290 constituencies in Kenya. Irregular allowances READ MORE EACC blunders give lifeline to high-profile graft suspects MPs want action on CBK staff over collapsed banks Corruption cacophony now full circus The audit shows that some MPs turned their CDF offices into employment bureaus to create jobs for their cronies; hired consultants at exorbitant rates to design strategic plans for their constituencies that were neither launched nor publicly distributed; drew irregular sitting allowances; irregularly paid millions to train dozens of bodaboda operators how to ride motorcycles; paid for teachers to attend seminars far away from their constituencies; and awarded multimillion contracts irregularly. In one instance, a local chemist landed a lucrative contract to pave roads. The audit reports have been made public a year to the next general election at a time when MPs are scheming on how to raise campaign money and when they are in a race to complete projects and fulfill campaign pledges. The release also comes at a time when the future of CDF is in the hands of the Court of Appeal judges who will on February 2017 determine whether the fund will be scrapped and the money disbursed directly to counties, or if MPs will continue to run the lucrative kitty. The chairman of the National Assembly&rsquo;s Committee on CDF, Moses Lessonet, (Eldama Ravine) saw his CDF team, in which he sits as an ex-officio member, stuck with Sh3 million in &ldquo;unpresented cheques&rdquo;; Sh13.7 million in bursary disbursements that &ldquo;could not be confirmed&rdquo; and failure to submit expenditure records for projects amounting to Sh15 million. The cloud of misappropriation involving CDF is so huge that State agencies are scrambling to expose lawmakers. In Budalang&rsquo;i, for example, the Auditor General found no documents, and when he asked, he was told that the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) had carted them away for an active investigation on the use of funds. The EACC is also still investigating Gideon Mung&rsquo;aro&rsquo;s Kilifi NorthConstituency. Majority Leader Aden Duale (Garissa Township) and his Minority counterpart Francis Nyenze (Kitui West) were not spared. Duale&rsquo;s CDF team overshot their spending budget by Sh6 million; awarded Sh2.9 worth of contracts in an &ldquo;irregular&rdquo; manner and failed to account for Sh9.1 million awarded for bursaries. &ldquo;Although payment records reflected the funds were disbursed, there were no official receipts and acknowledgement letters from the beneficiary institutions to confirm that the funds were received,&rdquo; says the report. For Nyenze, the query was on why Sh200,000 was diverted from the plan to put up a Sh700,000 administration block at Matinyani Police Station. Instead, Sh100,000 used to buy land, and another Sh100,000 to build a toilet. The auditor&rsquo;s problem was that the diversion was done without the approval of the board as required by the law. Most of the constituencies failed to account for bursary disbursements &ndash; they had no receipts or even records of the schools, colleges or universities acknowledging that the students got the money. Others flouted the procurement rules when they awarded multimillion-shilling contracts. The contracts were awarded without a tender committee and without agreement on the deliverables. Still others failed to account for millions in imprest. Mung&rsquo;aro&rsquo;s Kilifi North Constituency was isolated as the only constituency where a &ldquo;fraudulent withdrawal&rdquo; amounting to Sh2.5 million was made from the CDF accounts. The money was earmarked for rural electrification, but the project was never done. The withdrawal was omitted from the financial statements and CDF team made no disclosure in the supporting notes, meaning the CDF office wanted the auditor to forget about it. Incomplete works GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;