The possible structure of leadership in the National Super Alliance (Nasa) can now be revealed. This became evident during a meeting between CORD leaders Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka, and the Coalition Management Committee co-chairs, senators James Orengo (Siaya) and Johnstone Muthama (Machakos), and Ford-Kenya Secretary General Eseli Simuyu. Although the negotiations are yet to be concluded, initial reports indicate the proposed structure retains the 2013 line-up. However, the line-up will be expanded to create additional positions such as two vice presidents, a prime minister and two deputies. There is agreement that the top posts will be distributed among the principals&#39; strongholds. Besides the sharing out of new positions, the seats of the two speakers have been factored in and will be given to Western, Kisii and Mt Kenya regions. Coast too, will be accommodated in the proposed line-up. READ: CORD wants retired IEBC officials out of office by December 23 According to insiders, once the elections are held, a referendum will be held within 90 days to create the new positions, which will then be filled. Highly-placed sources at Capitol Hill where the meeting took place, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Raila and Kalonzo agreed that they would unveil a presidential candidate next year. &quot;Consultations are still ongoing and they agreed to find a presidential candidate next year. For now, CORD is still preoccupied with ensuring that the next elections are free, fair, credible and transparent,&quot; said the source. The strategy, according to Kalonzo, is to bring in political heavyweights like Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi and others in the expanded Opposition team. &quot;Mr Odinga only briefed me on the idea behind Nasa and the proposed structure. We agreed that we shall continue holding discussions to fine-tune Nasa and the structures,&quot; said Kalonzo. Although Senate Minority Leader and CORD co-principal Moses Wetang&#39;ula is out of the country on official business, he was represented by Dr Simiyu. READ: Lead Kambas to Jubilee, Kalonzo told Raila and Musalia recently toured Central Kenya where they urged voters to reject Jubilee, promising that the Opposition had solutions to their problems.