Bomet governor Isaac Ruto has vowed to continue with his campaign to popularize Chama Cha Mashinani (CCM) party saying he was not bothered with intimidation and insults directed towards him by some Jubilee leaders. Speaking two days after President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto toured his county-where they slammed him for allegedly leading a political rebellion against the government, Governor Ruto asked the jubilee leaders to allow democracy to thrive in the country. &quot;I am disappointed that jubilee leaders who are supposed to be symbols of national unity have reduced themselves to touring the county to intimidate and insult others. As for me, I have restrained myself but what I would like to tell them is that I will continue the marketing campaign for CCM in South rift region and across the country,&quot; said Ruto. The governor reminded President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP Ruto that if they continue issuing careless utterances in front of ordinary Kenyans, they risk plunging the county into tribal chaos. &quot;I hope that 2017 will usher a new dawn for the jubilee leaders and they would restrain themselves from making careless utterances,&quot; said Ruto. ALSO READ: Nicholas Biwott endorses DP Ruto&rsquo;s 2022 presidential bid The governor at the same time asked the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to conduct free and fair election in the forthcoming polls. &quot;We expect that the electoral body would manage the election very well. It must ensure that there wouldn&#39;t be any form of rigging in the election. That is the only way to ensure that security prevails in the country before and after next the election,&quot; he said. Ruto also asked the election losers to respect the outcome of the election by conceding defeat in a dignified manner. &quot;The government must also ensure that all the political aspirants enjoy a level playing field. We would not accept a situation whereby state agencies such as the police are used to intimidate the government critics,&quot; said Ruto. The Bomet governor also expressed confidence that he would recapture his seat through CCM against national Assembly deputy Speaker Dr Joyce Laboso who is being fronted by jubilee Party.