Some of the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education exam candidates who did not get their results due to a technical hitch at the examinations council have now received them. Several pupils from Nyanza region had not received the results for some subjects since Thursday when Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang&rsquo;i released them. The marks for the missing marks were only labelled as XX. But on Saturday, celebrations broke out in the schools when they received the results after the Kenya National Examinations Council corrected the anomaly. A member of the council&rsquo;s board, Dr Julius Juan, said no examination result had been cancelled and the missing results were due to a mix-up in index numbers. At Okok Primary School in Ndhiwa, Homa Bay County, three candidates had been affected and head teacher Silas Okello confirmed that they all received their results yesterday. Moving with speed READ MORE Kenya: Public school maintains excelling streak Kenya: We expect commitment, efficiency in public service Top Coast students reveal secrets of success in KCPE &ldquo;We received the results this morning and the pupils&rsquo; parents who had been worried are now very joyous. I wish to thank the examinations council for moving with speed to correct the mistake,&rdquo; said Mr Okello. He said one of the candidates, Were Omondi Maxwel, who had missed English marks now has 75 per cent in the paper. He scored 330 marks overall. His classmate, Vinet Alakok missed Kiswahili marks but confirmed yesterday that he had scored 58 per cent. Another candidate, Okeyo Violet had her science results marked XX before, but now she has 63 per cent. Candidates in Bondo, Siaya County, who were affected have also received their results. KNEC acting Chief Executive Officer Mercy Karogo yesterday assured parents and candidates who had not received their results that they would eventually receive them because no results were cancelled. Dr Juan said both KCPE and KCSE exams were a huge success. &ldquo;We don&rsquo;t want the missing marks to cloud what have been a huge success,&rdquo; he said. Meanwhile, a combination of group work, individual dedication, discipline and taking advice did it for Kisumu County&rsquo;s top candidate who scored 433 marks. Linda Noel, 14, topped his class at Xaverian Primary School and was also the best in Nyanza. Dedicated Francis Onditi, his father, said Noel was dedicated from early days of school and topped her class all through, only falling twice to second position in Standard Four and Five. &ldquo;Once in upper primary, she would stay late into the night to study, as she never wanted to be beaten by anyone. We supported her with the materials she needed to fulfill her academic goal,&rdquo; he said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;