The intervention by police to forestall violence during a meeting of aspirants has brought to the fore simmering tensions in the Jubilee Party (JP), and the disharmony among those selected to co-ordinate Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s presidential campaigns. The conflicts have been widespread in JP&rsquo;s Mt Kenya bastion &mdash; from Nyeri, Kiambu, Murang&rsquo;a and Meru counties. In Nyeri, differences between Governor Nderitu Gachagua and Nyeri Town MP, both members of the National Presidential Campaign team, played out in the open when the legislator skipped the meeting, saying it had been cancelled. Nomination fallout &ldquo;I am not an aspirant and my understating was the meeting had been cancelled,&rdquo; Murugi told The Standard on Sunday. However, Gachagua went ahead with the meeting but accused leaders at JP&rsquo;s headquarters in Nairobi of attempting to undermine his authority as the head of the county&rsquo;s presidential campaign team. READ MORE Cracks emerge among Jubilee leaders in Mombasa Graft will not determine who gets elected in 2017 Uhuru says No to name-calling in campaigns Gachagua said he had ignored their requests that he calls off the meeting, which however became heated when the 500 aspirants who attended the forum asked to be allocated more slots in the campaign team. One of the aspirants, Mr Wambugu Nyamu, wants a review of how members of the president&rsquo;s campaign team are selected. &ldquo;We need nine representative slots in the presidential campaign team at the county level,&rdquo; said the aspirant for the Nyeri senate seat. &ldquo;We also want the entire nomination committee vetted, including the coordinators,&rdquo; Nyamu observed. Another aspirant, Cathy Irungu, turned on the heat on the governor, and said they were ready to cross over to other political parties if they were treated unfairly. The aspirant for the Mathira parliamentary seat said they would not accept to be taken for granted. So heated was the meeting that administration police officers had to be called in to stave off a potential conflict as some of those present fought over the microphone, forcing the governor to end it with a pledge that he would convene another forum in two weeks. There were similar suspicious at a similar forum in Embu County with Union of Kenya Civil Servants National Treasurer Kinyua Mugo demanding to be assured that JP&rsquo;s nomination process would be fair. Mugo is apparently wary of Manyatta MP John Muchiri&rsquo;s selection in the campaign team. Unfair advantage &ldquo;It is not right to have a politician as a referee in a game he is competing in. Officials will have an unfair advantage,&rdquo; Mugo said. In Kiambu, a meeting of MPs, Members of County Assembly (MCAs) and aspirants convened by Thika MP Alice Ng&rsquo;ang&rsquo;a was skipped by Governor William Kabogo, Senator Kimani Wamatangi, Woman Representative Ann Nyokabi and MPs Moses Kuria (Gatundu South) and Francis Waititu (Juja). And in Kirinyaga, the coordinator for the presidential campaigns, Njogu Barua was accused of causing division among aspirants by favouring a potential candidate &mdash; John Gathungu &mdash; ahead of the&nbsp; nominations. In Murang&rsquo;a, the appointment of Senator Kembi Gitura and Woman Representative Sabina Chege to the campaign team has still not gained wide acceptance &mdash; the fear is that those in the campaign team will be able to leverage their position when they are seeking a JP ticket during the primaries. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;