Elders from Ogiek and Lembus communities have opposed a Government plan to dish out land in Mau Forest. They claimed there are plans to issue title deeds to people who have been living in parts if East Mau. On Tuesday, the elders warned that allowing people to own land and live in the forest will destroy a very important ecosystem and that such a move must be stopped. Lembus Council of Elders chairman Joseph Leboo said part of the targeted land for subdivision is in Kibunja block. Leboo accused leaders from Baringo County of being silent about the issue even though they are well aware of the dangers of allowing people to settle in the water catchment. &quot;We were expecting to see the Government, local leaders, residents and other stakeholders focus on efforts to rehabilitate the forest. However, what we are witnessing is the direct opposite,&quot; said Leboo. READ MORE Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho to answer contempt charges Planned law removes barriers for mega works Governor Joho and KBC sue each other on disputed 22-acre Mombasa plot He added: &quot;It is regrettable that plans to take parts of Kibunja Forest and subdivide it among certain individuals are going on without condemnation from our leaders. This is a serious matter and we are determined to ensure the forest is conserved.&quot; The idea of issuing land titles to people who have been living in parts of the forest was first brought up in May by Kuresoi MP Moses Cheboi. The MP told President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto who were on a tour of Nakuru and Baringo counties that people who had lived in the forest for many years should be allocated the land. It is this statement that has since angered elders from the two communities who have vowed to resist any move to dish out forest land. The elders are unhappy with Ruto who they said vowed, during his recent visit to the area, that they will go ahead with the plan despite resistance from shareholders. They also maintained the contentious part of the forest is in Baringo and not Nakuru as has been claimed by a section of Government officials. &nbsp; GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;