Parents of two girls who died in a car accident have accused the police of frustrating their quest for justice. &nbsp;They said the officers are delaying investigations into the deaths caused by a car&nbsp;reportedly belonging to an Assistant County Commissioner.The distraught parents said the driver of the said car has not been arrested seven days after the accident occurred in Eldama Ravine. Caroline Baskwony, mother of Audrey Jemutai, said the Standard One pupil at Shimoni Primary School, was knocked down after the speeding vehicle veered off the road at Bondeni.Nine-month-old Faith Jepchumba had been strapped on Jemutai&rsquo;s back when the white Toyota Probox hit them.Jemutai died on the spot while her friend died at Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital, Eldoret.&nbsp;They were buried on Friday in an emotional ceremony at Saos.&nbsp;Ms Baskwony said the driver fled after the accident but was brought back by the public. &ldquo;I was picking vegetables when I saw the vehicle coming in our direction at high speed. However, before I could reach the children, the car had &nbsp;already crushed them. The younger baby was still breathing but her friend was in a pool of blood,&rdquo; she said.Paul Rotich, Jemutai&rsquo;s father, said he could not understand how the driver who reportedly surrendered himself at Eldama Ravine Police Station was not booked in.&ldquo;I demanded to know why he was allowed to go home but a police officer told me I was creating disturbances. The male officer asked me what my next course of action will be in the event the culprit is not apprehended,&rdquo; said Rotich.On her part, Jepchumba&rsquo;s mother, Nancy Biwott said police are determined to ensure they don&rsquo;t get justice. She said their attempts to record statements have been frustrated since the accident happened.&ldquo;We want justice for our children today and not tomorrow. Why are we being taken in circles when we request to record statements on what we know?&rdquo; Nancy said with tears rolling down her cheeks.Demanding actionShe accused the police of protecting the owner of the vehicle allegedly because he is a civil servant.Nancy&rsquo;s husband, Isaac Biwott, said he was reprimanded by Eldama Ravine base commandant Wilson Kenda for taking too long to record a statement. He said he had just arrived from Eldoret with the body of his daughter.During the accident, three other children who were hit but escaped with injuries were treated and discharged. However, their parents too are demanding action against the owner of the vehicle and the driver.One of the parents, Aziz Osman, said he was turned away at the traffic department and told to instead bring his five-year- old son to record a statement.&ldquo;My son is still confused and scared. I did not have cash on me when the incident occurred. I have had to apply for a loan to take him for a head scan. Part of his head is swollen,&rdquo; said the distressed father.Outside the police station, we found the alleged vehicle, KBM 904U, sandwiched between Government vehicles instead of the normal accident yard, with dry blood still visible on the right front side.Confirming the incident, Eldama Ravine deputy OCPD Jonathan Wafula said the unlicensed driver was still on the run and denied claims he was arrested but released under unclear circumstances.&ldquo;It&rsquo;s true investigations established that the vehicle belongs to Assistant County Commissioner Ezekiel Otieno. We have also established the wanted driver who works as a mason in Eldama Ravine town picked it from a garage where it was being repaired and drove it away,&rdquo; Wafula said.He said the driver is being pursued by detectives and will be charged with causing death by dangerous driving.An autopsy report conducted at Mercy Mission Hospital described the cause of deaths as multiple injuries as a result of blunt force and trauma.&ldquo;As a result of my examination, I formed the opinion that the cause of death was multiple injuries resulting from motor vehicle-related injury consistent with pedestrian injuries,&rsquo;&rsquo; reads a second postmortem report signed by the hospital&rsquo;s Medical Superintendent.