On the morning of August 22, Samia Omar woke up with a divided conscience. She spent the whole morning trying to reconcile the two sides. But by 2pm, she had given up the fight and she submitted in her resignation as the Lamu County Trade, Tourism, Culture and Natural Resources Executive. &ldquo;As county executive for both investment and natural resources, my mandate and obligation to the public is conflicted between promoting investment in Lamu, and preserving the environment,&rdquo; said Ms Omar. &ldquo;Having read the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) of the Lamu Coal Power Plant, I am convinced that the project will have irreversible and profound impact on Lamu,&rdquo; she said as she handed in her resignation letter. For decades, Lamu County was known for its tourist attraction sites and agriculture based businesses. But over the past three years, a lot more is being associated with it, key being a coal mining plant billed as a saviour to Kenya&rsquo;s energy needs. Labelled by the Government as a Vision 2030 project, Lamu&rsquo;s coal power plant is expected to produce 1,050 megawatts (MW) of electricity on completion &ndash; a 50 per cent addition to the 2,200MW on the national electricity grid. However, Lamu&rsquo;s local community, leaders and environmental campaigners have united in opposition to the project, in what is slowly evolving into a fierce conflict between mega infrastructure and local community interests in a region caught in the dilemma of protecting its heritage while at the same time playing its part in nation building. Dirty energy Amu Power, a consortium that includes local firms Gulf Energy and Centum, is spearheading development of the Sh200 billion power plant, with the Investment and Power Construction Corporation of China charged with construction. Construction of the power plant on 869 acres in Kwasasi, 20 kilometres off Lamu town, was scheduled to begin last September. Its owners have billed it as the first of its kind in the region. But as the plans to satisfy a huge power appetite continue full steam ahead, Lamu residents continue to share their reservations over the long term effect of the project. And they vow to do all they can to stop what they term as an intrusion into not only their lives, but the existence of future generations too. &ldquo;We have been against this project from the beginning. Coal is dirty energy and its effects are detrimental,&rdquo; Ishaq Abubakar of the Lamu Youth Alliance says. &ldquo;We are not anti-development but no one in the world has ventured into coal mining and faced no long term consequences.&rdquo; Ishaq says if the project starts, the livelihoods of hundreds of fishermen who depend on the waters near the plant will be at stake. &ldquo;Plus the health problems as a result of the pollution will take its toll on the population,&rdquo; he says. Key among the issues raised by Ishaq is the inadequate public participation of residents on the project. He says an EIA report was submitted to Nema on July 14, 2016 by Amu Power, the invitation of comments from the public was made on July 29, giving 30 days for comments &ndash; due by August 29. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;