Doubts swirled over the future of&nbsp;the Opposition coalition as ODM leader&nbsp;Raila Odinga&rsquo;s allies insisted he is&nbsp;the strongest CORD presidential candidate.&nbsp; As Raila backers dismissed demands&nbsp;by Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula that Raila steps down&nbsp;for them, it also emerged that three&nbsp;lawyers are this week set to present guidelines on selection of the CORD&nbsp;flag bearer. ODM leader Raila Odinga&rsquo;s allies have maintained that he is the strongest Opposition presidential candidate. The leaders spoke as it emerged that three lawyers are to present guidelines on selection of the CORD flagbearer before this weekend. The Orange party leaders John Mbadi (chairman), James Opiyo (political affairs secretary), Florence Mutua (organising secretary), Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay County chairperson) as well as MP Fred Outa said Raila was CORD&rsquo;s best bet to win the presidency. &ldquo;Raila has suffered a lot for this country and we would, therefore, like him to be given the opportunity. We know that it (talk of discord in the coalition) is propaganda being peddled by our competitors and are using some of the members to create division,&rdquo; said Mr Mbadi. READ MORE Raila denies role in fall of KQ cargo business Raila&rsquo;s call to arms over IEBC uncalled for Wiper: Kambas must be prepared to be in 2017 government Ms Mutua, who is also the Busia woman representative, termed demands by fellow CORD co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula that Raila steps down for them as selfish, which will rock the coalition. Mutua said ODM had set its sights on the presidency and nothing would distract them. &ldquo;Raila commands over five million votes nationally and the number has gone up. Why then shouldn&rsquo;t he be supported then he can play kingmaker in 2022?&rdquo; she posed. She went on: &ldquo;ODM as a party has gained momentum and nothing is going to stop the liberation train that has already taken off. As is expected from the history of all coalitions, some partners will fall off for their own reasons but we will gain more who believe in our cause as we move along.&rdquo; &ldquo;Political power is all about the people and anyone simply sitting somewhere and waiting for some kind of coronation can only be deluding himself,&rdquo; said Mr Opiyo. However, Mbadi and Wanga downplayed suggestions of a rift in the coalition. &ldquo;The party leader has spoken very clearly on the issue and said we are not going it alone as ODM. I don&rsquo;t think we have pronounced ourselves as a party on the issue. The party&rsquo;s central committee has not made such a resolution,&rdquo; said Mbadi. Ms Wanga, the Homa Bay County woman representative, added: &ldquo;If anybody says ODM will go it alone, that is a personal opinion. However, everybody is raising their stakes. CORD will emerge stronger. Any union is as strong as its weakest link. We should, therefore, refrain from any divisive remarks.&rdquo; Yesterday, a source within the CORD secretariat said that the three principals had tasked three lawyers to draft the nomination framework, timelines for the unveiling of the coalition&rsquo;s flag bearer and the dispute resolution mechanism. According to the source, the CORD leaders were aware of the acrimony building up, with each party trying to flex its muscles in drumming up support for its preferred presidential candidate. &ldquo;We have three lawyers who have been tasked to draft the nominations framework, timelines of unveiling of the flag bearer and resolution mechanism for disputes that might emerge after the nomination,&rdquo; said the source. The three lawyers are said to be reporting directly to the three Opposition leaders. &ldquo;They have till the end of the week to finalise the draft and present the document to the coalition leaders,&rdquo; added the source. On Sunday, Kalonzo led his Wiper Party in a rally in Mombasa in what was dubbed &lsquo;Tononoka declaration&rsquo;. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;