Parents of two girls who died in a car accident have accused the police of frustrating their quest for justice. &nbsp; They said the officers are delaying investigations into the deaths caused by a car&nbsp;reportedly belonging to an Assistant County Commissioner. The distraught parents said the driver of the said car has not been arrested seven days after the accident occurred in Eldama Ravine. Caroline Baskwony, mother of Audrey Jemutai, said the Standard One pupil at Shimoni Primary School, was knocked down after the speeding vehicle veered off the road at Bondeni. Nine-month-old Faith Jepchumba had been strapped on Jemutai&rsquo;s back when the white Toyota Probox hit them. Jemutai died on the spot while her friend died at Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital, Eldoret.&nbsp;They were buried on Friday in an emotional ceremony at Saos.&nbsp; READ MORE Maraga must clean up Judiciary, steer reforms Six killed in Sachangwan road crash Justice Isaac Lenaola appointed to Supreme Court Ms Baskwony said the driver fled after the accident but was brought back by the public. &ldquo;I was picking vegetables when I saw the vehicle coming in our direction at high speed. However, before I could reach the children, the car had &nbsp;already crushed them. The younger baby was still breathing but her friend was in a pool of blood,&rdquo; she said. Paul Rotich, Jemutai&rsquo;s father, said he could not understand how the driver who reportedly surrendered himself at Eldama Ravine Police Station was not booked in. &ldquo;I demanded to know why he was allowed to go home but a police officer told me I was creating disturbances. The male officer asked me what my next course of action will be in the event the culprit is not apprehended,&rdquo; said Rotich. On her part, Jepchumba&rsquo;s mother, Nancy Biwott said police are determined to ensure they don&rsquo;t get justice. She said their attempts to record statements have been frustrated since the accident happened. &ldquo;We want justice for our children today and not tomorrow. Why are we being taken in circles when we request to record statements on what we know?&rdquo; Nancy said with tears rolling down her cheeks. Demanding action GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;