Kisumu West MCA Paul Odhiambo was not alarmed when three men and a woman flagged him down as he headed home three days ago.Odhiambo had a busy day in his ward and was focused on getting home. The whole idea of being abducted never crossed his mind at that moment. Paul Manager, as he is commonly referred to in the area, says he was driving slowly as the road is rough.He, however, noticed that one of the men had a short gun and quickly pointed it at him as he ordered him to co-operate.They pulled him from his car, blind-folded him and dragged him in the opposite direction on foot. They then boarded a car that was waiting a few metres away.He says the abductors asked many questions, especially on his political life, including how much he had set aside for the 2017 election campaigns, and why he was too critical of Kisumu county government. They also wanted to know his plans for his political future.&quot;I told them I will not be defending my seat in 2017 as my family has advised me against it,&quot; he said. Apparently, this is the statement that saved him.&quot;I just told them I am done with politics. I told them that my family is not happy with my work as an MCA and had advised me against defending my seat,&quot; said Odhiambo.Odhiambo claims the abductors became easy, thanked him for making &#39;a wise political decision&#39; and warned him against seeking political office again.&quot;I told them I had made the decision not to vie again a long time ago and it seemed that is what they wanted to hear,&quot; said the ward representative.Soon after, says Odhiambo, the story changed and the abductors started talking about sports betting.After a long journey to an unknown place, the MCA says he was taken to a room where his abductors made several calls informing the person on the other side of the line that they had done their part.He noted that at one moment, he heard one of the callers say they have given the person they were calling up to 9&nbsp;o&#39;clock to respond to their demands or they set the captive free.Odhiambo noted that after the call, the abductors left the room and came back after several hours. They blindfolded him again and drove away for several hours before allowing him out of the car.He added that the car then sped off and since he did not know where he was as it was dark, he took the direction&nbsp; the car took hopping to find help.&quot;After walking for a while, I met some women. I asked them to tell me where I was and they said I was in Rongo. A boda boda rider who joined the women offered to take me to Rongo Police Station,&quot; said Odhiambo.The MCA regretted an attack on a county official accused of having been party to his abduction and urged residents not to take the law in their hands.&quot;We should let the police complete their investigations into the matter to bring the culprits to book,&quot; he said.