The county government has disowned a Sh30 million project that would have seen residents enjoy free Wi-Fi. Information, Communication and Technology Executive Michael Onyango yesterday said the national government is behind the project. &quot;We did not allocate any money in my budget which does not even appear anywhere in our record meaning it is not my project. If I don&#39;t have it in my budget, then who&#39;s paying for it? All questions regarding the cyber security project should be directed to the national government,&quot; he said. This came as reports trickled in that the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission is investigating alleged loss of the money. EACC has reportedly summoned 12 top officials over alleged misappropriation of the Sh30 million through irregular procurement of consultancy and training services. &quot;I know you read something in a newspaper. I don&#39;t hold brief for the newspaper but the county government. All I would wish to say is that indeed there are investigations currently being conducted,&quot; Onyango told reporters in Kisumu Town.&nbsp; READ MORE Agony of disabled 4 turned away by State facilities in Nakuru County Think ahead on Commission on Revenue Allocation (CRA) in devolved Kenya Spotlight on county facilities as Uhuru devolves State fetes He added: &quot;As a minister, I must give the investigators time to do their work and based on what comes out, they can ask me questions to which I will promptly answer.&quot; &quot;I have my own Wi-Fi project which I am developing right now. In the next eight months or so, I want to ensure Kisumu County will be one place that will have the fastest the most reliable and affordable internet in Africa.&quot; Meanwhile, it has emerged relocation of the Kachok dumpsite, which has been an eyesore in the town, may not happen soon due to a misunderstanding between the county government and a donor agency which runs the Kisumu Urban Project. Water and Environment Executive Barack Abonyo said the county had done its part by buying land for the relocation and blamed their partner, Kisumu Urban Project, for the delay.