Sons of Mombasa tycoon Tahir Sheikh Said, popularly known as TSS, are fighting for control of his multi-billion-shilling empire. Sabir Tahir Said and his younger brother Sheikh Noorein Twahir are fighting for control of the transport segment of two firms, Transmara Logistic Ltd and TSS Pop Service Stations. The protracted legal battle between Sabir and Noorein comes at a time when their father is fighting to save his other franchise, Unga Millers Ltd, over Sh2.7 billion in unpaid bank loans. Sons of embattled Mombasa businessman Tahir Sheikh Said are embroiled in a legal battle over the control of his multi-billion-shilling empire. Each of the two sons is seeking to seize control of the transport segment of two firms, Transmara Logistic Limited and TSS Pop Service Stations, in which their father, popularly known as TSS, is the main shareholder. The two have differed on how to share the many lorries their father owns as well as other properties claimed by two companies where they are claiming shares. READ MORE Help us find our missing young son NO JOY IN LOCKING UP RIVALS: Prisons volleyball team coach Lung'aho not carried away with impressive form &lsquo;Fundis&rsquo; shortage spoils party for construction sector The tycoon&rsquo;s eldest son, Sabir Tahir Sheikh Said, has filed a counter-suit to challenge a High Court order directing him to transfer several vehicles to his younger bother, Sheikh Noorein Twahir. High Court judge Justice Njoki Mwangi issued the order after Noorein, who is a director of Transmara Logistic Limited, moved to court and successfully obtained orders forcing Sabir to release to him three 30,000-litre fuel tankers and two trailers. OVERTURN ORDER &nbsp;Mid this year, the court ordered Sabir to give Noorein part of the fleet the former had reportedly taken over. But TSS&rsquo;s eldest son has moved to court seeking to overturn this order. Sabir also wants the court to order an audit into how 15 lorries they have both laid claim to ended up with his brother. &ldquo;An order is hereby given for the defendant to forthwith release motor vehicles KBH 183Y, KBH 184Y, KBW 211L and trailers ZD 1288 and ZD1290,&rdquo; Justice Mwangi said in an order issued on June 17. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;