As Kenyans celebrated the 7th Mashujaa Day under the 2010 Constitution, Africa&rsquo;s celebrated afro-fusion icon, music judge and mentor Lydia Achieng Abura took the final bow. Achieng, may her soul rest in eternal peace, won many hearts throughout the country and beyond, with her soulful sound and innovative lyrics. She asserted her music prowess at the inaugural Tusker Project Fame where she was a leading judge. She was a mentor to hundreds of artistes in Kenya and beyond; Achieng pulled large crowds of fans wherever she staged her riveting music shows.She was, without doubt, an accomplished and celebrated entertainer as evidenced by the dozens of awards she received. Sadly, on her last days Achieng fought a solitary battle; snubbed by the authorities, corporate organisations and the thousands of fans she worked with in good health. And as the songbird rests in peace, her son is battling a disease and staring at a bleak future with no sufficient money and support to cater for his treatment. This cannot be the way that Kenyans treat and celebrate their heroes and heroines. What is the role of the government appointed team tasked with the noble cause of identifying national heroes? Was the team aware of Achieng Abura&rsquo;s struggles? And if they did, what did they do? What did fellow Kenyans, the fans who loved Achieng&rsquo;s songs, do to help their star? On Thursday, the country was celebrating individuals who have impacted society positively and made life worth living for millions of Kenyans. These individuals include notable freedom fighters, politicians, educationists, artists, conservationists and thousands of individuals who have stood out in selfless service to the nation. Their patriotism, acts of kindness and contribution to nation building have left indelible marks across the country and inspired many Kenyans, especially the youth. And this is as it should be because every generation must aspire to be better than their predecessor, while making the future even more promising.This said, we urge Kenyans to always recognise and reward outstanding individuals when they are still alive. It is unacceptable to have heroes and heroines spending their last days on earth wallowing in need and indignity that could be avoided through charitable acts. How about Kenyans of goodwill coming together to form a foundation to cater for ailing national heroes?Where are the philanthropic Kenyans when national heroes are struggling with disease? Where are the self-appointed defenders of the poor when famous Kenyans are confined to miserable living standards? Kenyans of goodwill should constantly be looking out for forgotten heroes and heroines and prop them up when life&rsquo;s challenges bring them down.It is of little use to come together and raise huge amounts of money to send off fellow Kenyans who made our lives worth living after neglecting them when they needed that help in life.And so as the country prepares to rest the body of Lydia Achieng Abura, we must genuinely seek answers to the hard questions. Could a little act of charity have made her life worth living even in her last moments?