I operate an art studio in a tiny room within Kirimara Springs Hotel in Nanyuki town. This is fulfillment of a dream that took many years to be realised.My love affair with art goes back to my days in primary school when I would draw and paint during my free time. I continued to do this all through high school and hoped to continue with this in college.This was, however, not to be and after I sat my KCSE in 1995, I left my home in Kirinyaga county for the Coast where I ended up working as a casual labourer at a footwear company in Kilifi. I later relocated to Nairobi&rsquo;s Bahati area where I was employed as a manager at a barber shop and saloon. It is while working in Nairobi that my interest in painting became unbearable and unable to contain it, I approached my parents requesting them to sponsor my fine arts course. I had applied, and been admitted to study this course at Art Creative Centre in Nairobi.However, when I approached my parents they were not for it. They believed that white collar jobs were the best for me and were not willing to pay for me to study art. They instead secured a job for me with the Kenya National Library Services (KNLS) and I was posted to Laikipia District Library in Nanyuki as a library attendant.Compared to my previous employment stint, this was a much better offer but I was not impressed. I, however, decided not to shun it thinking I could take advantage of the study leave offered by government to learn fine arts-while still working at the library.When I finally applied to study, my employer declined my request since the course I intended to pursue was not in line with my responsibilities at the library. I had to change the course and I ended up enrolled as a Liberal Science student at the Kenya Polytechnic.My heart was not in it, I did not finish the course and I decided to take the only available option there was for me to learn fine arts.My employment at the library gave me access to information materials on fine arts which I would peruse as I worked. I then started buying painting materials and would work on my art pieces during my off days.In 2007, I was transferred to Munyu Community Library located in Kieni, Nyeri County and it was then I made up my mind to resign so that I could concentrate on my paintings.I went into pursuing this dream fully and set up shop at my current location.I am passionate about wildlife and most paintings in my shop are about wild animals, environment and personalities. People buy my paintings because they bear a message on environment, culture, wildlife or other aspects of life.My work has made me mingle and rub shoulders with various prominent personalities and celebrities, among them former Safaricom CEO Michael Joseph, First Lady Margaret Kenyatta and Catholic Church Head, John Cardinal Njue.This work is not without its challenges but I have no regrets. This is a talent that lies in my bones; expressing my ideas on canvas using paints is a what I want to do for the rest of my life.&rdquo;