Some members of the County Assembly are now calling upon the Auditor General and Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to audit projects initiated by the county government. The MCAs said most of the projects were funded and others initiated during the reign of the embattled deputy governor Eliud Murithi Mati as the Finance executive. Nominated MCA&#39;s Stephanina Ciamati, James Mutembei, Faith Njeri and Ruth Karea highly expressed doubt over genuinety in funding and implementation of projects under the watch of the deputy governor who lately has been named in stringent scam involving huge sums of money. Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission raided Murithi&#39;s homes in Kinoru and Tunyai on Friday, in search of materials that could help in investigations after he claimed that his bodyguard Josphat Kipyegon robbed him of sh 3.5 million at a gunpoint at his Kinoru home. The leaders questioned the sudden source of wealth of the county deputy boss, expressing fears that county funds might have been ending up in individual&rsquo;s pockets. &quot;We are afraid since the deputy governor is being investigated with allegations of corruption also the projects and the ministry he headed should be investigated to establish if at all any coin meant for public slipped into his pocket,&quot; she said. READ MORE Auditor General owes public a report on national debt President Uhuru roasts top officers over holes in corruption war Ouko team faults law on merger of political parties and wants it reviewed A total of Sh118,096,272, she said was allocated for about 21 community water projects across the county in the 2014/2015 financial budget and the money was released but the projects have never been started. The MCA said there was massive looting of public funds in the name of funding projects which are never done. The MCA challenged the county government to account for Sh6 million that was allocated for the construction of a dump site in Kathigirini Village where only a small piece of land was bought. She said in the 2014/2015 budget 54 health projects, which included the construction of 30 dispensaries across the county, were allocated Sh120 million but most of the construction was yet to start while others have stalled due to lack of cash. She accused some of the elected MCAs of colluding with the county executive to steal from public. &quot;Most of the MCAs must be aware of where this money is going because they are silent and whenever some of us ask they silence us,&quot; said Ms Ciamiti. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;