A teenager&rsquo;s right hand has been chopped off as punishment after he was accused of stealing miraa.Ruphus Kirimi, who is admitted to Chaaria Mission Hospital, claims a man who has leased his grandfather&rsquo;s land cut off his hand after accusing him of stealing his crop.The victim says the local tycoon, who was in the company of two other men, waylaid him at Athiru Gaiti, Igembe South sub-county and beat him up. They later forced him on a motorbike and went with him to the farm where they attacked him. &ldquo;They tied me with ropes and beat me up some more. The businessman took out a sharp knife and cut off my right hand. When the knife reached the bone, he broke it before cutting off the hand completely and went away with it,&rdquo; Kirimi, from Kangutu village, said from his hospital bed.Kirimi, the first-born in a family of seven, denied stealing the man&rsquo;s crop. He said he was unfairly attacked. Locals claim the man cut off the boy&rsquo;s hand as a scheme to snatch their land.There are claims rich men cut off hands of boys from poor families after accusing them of stealing miraa, then offer to take care of their medical bills and demand a refund later. But since targeted families are normally the poor ones, they never get to pay back the money and end up surrendering their land instead.The boy&rsquo;s mother, Lucy Nchooro termed the attack as brutal and asked police to thoroughly investigate the matter and ensure justice is served.&ldquo;We are poor and we were all depending on him. We could not take him to school due to lack of fees and he was forced to drop out on Standard Four. He has been working on people&rsquo;s farms to support us. But now, he will no longer be able to fend for us or himself. This is unfair and we are calling on the police to act swiftly,&rdquo; said a distraught Nchooro.Igembe South OCPD Jane Nyakeruma said they have already launched investigations into the attack. She said they are looking for one of the businessman&rsquo;s workers who is said to have cut off the boy&rsquo;s hand.&ldquo;He (businessman) has already recorded a statement with us regarding the incident. He claims one of his workers was responsible and that is why we are looking for him,&rdquo; said Ms Nyakeruma.&nbsp;However, kirimi who spoke to the standard maintained it was the tycoon who cut off his hand and not his worker as he claimed.Mwiti Kibati, a local, regretted that tycoons have been attacking and injuring boys after falsely accusing them of stealing miraa.CLAM REFUNDS&ldquo;They would then foot the hospital bills and later claim refunds from parents. However, because the parents are poor, they are forced to give up their land. This trend in gaining notoriety in miraa growing areas and we are asking the government to act,&rdquo; said Kibati.Last month, 17-year-old Stanley Kinoti from Mwanika village in Igembe North had his hands cut off by a local tycoon who accused him of stealing his crop.For some time now, the standard punishment for miraa thieves in the region has been chopping off culprit&rsquo;s hands. This explains why many young men in the region, some primary and secondary school students, are missing either one or both hands.Njuri Ncheke Council of Elders chairman Linus Kathera said they are currently handling many such cases. &ldquo;Farmers prefer to cut off hands of those found stealing their crop. You can see victims are everywhere. It is unfortunate people are taking the law into their own hands,&rdquo; said Kathera.&ldquo;Most farmers don&rsquo;t report to the police because they suspects often get released,&rdquo; he said.Most of these cases have been reported in Igembe North and Igembe Central sub-counties.