Question: At what stage are the negotiations with CORD principals on formation of a &lsquo;super alliance&rsquo;?Answer: We are at what in diplomacy is called &ldquo;probing stage&rdquo;. You put a proposal on the table to sieve reactions. You&rsquo;ve seen how fast and furious some of the reactions have been. So yes, the idea is out there but we haven&rsquo;t begun formal discussions. But one thing must be made clear; the super alliance (muungano maalum) I am talking about isn&rsquo;t about one party or existing coalition swallowing others. At least ANC isn&rsquo;t thinking about that. But the usual spin doctors want to distort my message. Working with CORD is very different from joining CORD. The super alliance is about pooling opposition together to defeat Jubilee resoundingly in 2017.Q: What are the key things you would like to be considered during the crafting of the deal? A: I would be baiting the cat too soon if I told you that. I am not in the minds of those supporting super alliance. However, specialists are busy working on scenarios for the best strategy. Who knows what name shall the super alliance acquire?Q: Can you remain in the alliance even if you are not endorsed to be the flag bearer?A: In Kenya, coalitions only come to fruition at the last minute. We are about six months away and anything is possible. I have learned the hard way to never say never in politics.Q: What needs to be put in place to remove Jubilee from power?A: One, simply get the best person by way of potential numbers, not necessarily the most popular, to face Uhuru. Two, show the electorate the dark side of smiling faces of Jubilee leaders. Three, guard against rigging &ndash; from voter registration to balloting and transmission. In fact Jubilee can only steal the election during results transmission. We must therefore put sentries along the transmission line. We don&rsquo;t want what happened during the Kericho senatorial by-election to happen to again.Q: Are you keen to see Budalang&rsquo;I MP Ababu Namwamba and former Lugari MP Cyrus Jirongo incorporated in the alliance?A: We consult regularly with the two and other leaders not only from western but other parts of the country as well, and they have no problem with my presidential ambitions. In fact, we discussed this idea with Cyrus Jirongo when we shared a chopper on the way to bury the late Jacob Juma in Mungore, Bungoma County, and it is he who first spoke about it at that funeral.Q: The essence of forming a super alliance is to remove Jubilee from power. Do you think dislodging Jubilee is easy?A: It is never easy to dislodge an incumbent in Africa. That is why the super alliance is necessary to consolidate every single vote. But Jubilee has been such a disaster and we need a new technique and freshness to dislodge them. Jubilee is extremely vulnerable. It is an illusion you can easily burst.Q: What measure are you going to put in place to ensure Jubilee does not gain any popularity in Western?A: It isn&rsquo;t there even as we speak. The evidence comes from Jubilee brokers who have publicly complained that Jubilee is hard to sell. Everything Jubilee tries to endear itself backfires. People are hungry, sick and unemployed but Jubilee keeps the high-sounding PR tricks flowing; oh we will do this at the cost of this? It has now resorted to &ldquo;project lying&rdquo;. They fly in to commission projects started under the Grand Coalition government.The opulence of this government is shocking yet nothing tangible is seen on the ground. Every grand project they embark on is underwritten and executed by corruption. Even then no major investment has been made in the same projects. Ask yourself why the Kakamega-Webuye stretch has stalled yet the President is due to commission it once again. Has the injection of Sh2 billion helped any farmer? I am convinced whoever bought Pan Paper wasn&rsquo;t interested in reviving the factory but targeting to cannibalise the company&rsquo;s assets.Q: Most of the ANC officials, particularly from Kakamega County, want you to be flag bearer in case you join hands with CORD. Do you share the same view?A: I think they were just echoing and supporting what I said about CORD seemingly not getting their house in order. I had appealed to CORD to get their act together so that we can join forces as a super alliance against Jubilee. And yes, I have offered to lead the troops, an army of the willing against Jubilee. But it is not just ANC officials in Kakamega alone. I&rsquo;ve just come from the Coast and the idea is the same across parties. I have widespread support and goodwill over the super alliance idea.Q: Western is perceived to be a region that does not vote as a bloc. How are you going to ensure this time round votes are cast in one basket?A: This is a myth not backed by any fact. Every election cycle since multiparty, the Luhya overwhelmingly vote as a bloc for the presidency. The truth is the community, even as they vote as a bloc, has never voted as a bloc for one of their own. In 1997, they voted for retired president Daniel arap Moi not the late Kijana Wamalwa. In 2002, they voted for Kibaki and not Martin Shikuku. In 2007 and 2013 they chose Raila Odinga.Other communities have stuck with one of their own and we are encouraging the community not to shy away from its own out fear of being labelled tribalists. We are encouraging pride and identity in oneself. Ethnic bloc voting has become one of the caucuses in presidential elections in Kenya. A candidate from the community will only become attractive to other communities if they he has backing from his home region.Q: MPs from Western who were elected on UDF in 2013 and have since decamped to Jubilee have vowed not to rescind their decision and join ANC, affirming it was you who led them to Jubilee. What is your take?A: Those who have been seduced by Jubilee largesse are in a minority. As to how the cooperation with Jubilee came to be, these MPs shouldn&rsquo;t shy away from the truth, which is that they exerted a lot pressure on the party leadership. I held them at bay for as long as I could but they insisted. At a joint meeting with NEC, they all voted for cooperation, save for Senator Khalwale.Since it was their decision, I didn&rsquo;t sign the agreement and let the UDF chair then Hassan Osman, a fellow MP, sign. But more fundamentally, if I was the one who herded them into Jubilee, how come they are still stuck in there while I have left? Doesn&rsquo;t it mean they found a new bride on free will? Are they there under duress so we can send our troops to rescue them?Q: Are the ongoing electoral reforms anything to guarantee free and fair elections in 2017 general elections?A: I cannot be absolutely sure. CORD and Jubilee greedily excluded a large segment of us from direct participation. We were afforded presentation of memoranda only. The result is that our opinions and proposals were not taken on board to comprehensively amend troublesome clauses in the Political Parties Act and Elections Act. The result is their focus was restricted to removing IEBC commissioners.