The national government is negotiating with a Chinese bank for a Sh14 billion loan to fund construction of a second port in Kisumu. Transport and Infrastructure&nbsp;Principal Secretary Wilson Irungu yesterday announced that plans to build a modern port had reached advanced stages. He said the site for the Sh14 billion lake port had been identified at Kisian, six kilometres south of the current location, and the Government was close to inking a financial agreement with China Exim Bank to finance its construction. He said feasibility studies had also mapped out an&nbsp;extension route for the standard gauge railway (SGR) which will reach Kisumu in the next phase of construction. A nine-kilometre stretch built off the Naivasha-Kisumu-Malaba line will terminate at the port where a logistics hub is also planned. The construction of the port by China Road and Bridge Company (CRBC) is expected to begin sometime next year, building impetus to the growth of Kisumu as East Africa&rsquo;s trade hub. &ldquo;We have signed commercial agreements with CRBC and we expect to close the financial agreement with the Export-Import Bank of China (China Exim) early next year after which construction will begin,&rdquo; said the PS. READ MORE Kisumu County official disowns Sh30 million Wi-Fi project Agony of disabled 4 turned away by State facilities in Nakuru County Think ahead on Commission on Revenue Allocation (CRA) in devolved Kenya The new location, he said, had been chosen due availability of large tracts of land for expansion and for setting up of a logistics hub and an industrial park to revitalise EAC hub ambitions. The CRBC will construct modern berths, state-of-the-art cargo handling equipment and dredging the access channel to enable the port to handle bigger vessels. The Kenya Ports Authority has said it would bring in larger vessels than those that berthed at the old port to double stakes in maritime trade in the region. Series of upgrade Meanwhile, the current pier is set to undergo a series of upgrades that would breathe a new lease of life into it. Speaking when he visited the Kisumu port yesterday, the PS said plans were in the pipeline to start revamping the old port. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;