Opposition leaders from Nyanza and Western Kenya have told Kenyans to brace for a super political alliance that will dislodge Jubilee government from power in next year&rsquo;s election.The ODM and Ford Kenya politicians who for the first time met in Kisumu after public outbursts between the two sides of the coalition, moved fast to dispel fears of disunity in the Opposition.The Ford Kenya team led by CORD co-principal Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula told Kenyans not to panic, saying: &ldquo;Raila Odinga, Wetang&rsquo;ula and Kalonzo Musyoka will carry the day for unbowed unity.&rdquo; The leaders were speaking during the burial of the late Joyce Olago, daughter to Kisumu town West MP Olago Aluoch at Mamboleo sports ground. Joyce, who worked at the Senate, died in a road crash on Lang&rsquo;ata Road, Nairobi, two weeks ago. Large numbersHoma Bay Senator Moses Kajwang said the government should deal with those who stole money from Eurobond and the National Youth Service. Siaya Senator James Orengo urged people to come out in large number and register as voters. He enumerated a catalogue of score cards which the Jubilee government had failed to tackle, including, tribalism, growing public debt, graft, poverty and unemployment.The ODM brigade led by deputy party leader Wycliffe Oparanya and Ford Kenya team led by Wetang&rsquo;ula reassured Kenyans that their unity was &ldquo;formidable and unshakable&rdquo; and that no plans to divide the Opposition will succeed. The ODM leaders downplayed the chorus that had earlier dominated public discourse that Wetang&rsquo;ula apologise to CORD leader Raila Odinga for politically insulting him over the presidency.Instead, most ODM speakers asked Wetang&rsquo;ula to support Raila because he is his senior. Nyakach MP Aduma Owuor and Trans Nzoia MP Ferdinand Wanyonyi noted the need to unite and rally behind a popular candidate for the presidency. While Owuor preferred Raila, Wanyonyi termed the proposal a good idea that would be feasible only after the leaders built their own house before uniting for the common good.&ldquo;We want our leaders to remain united and agree on a common candidate at the right time. Kisumu is the political litmus. It will give us direction and sway our thinking,&rdquo; said Wanyonyi.But Oparanya and Kwale Senator Juma Boy rooted for Raila as the strongest candidate with political resilience. &ldquo;We in Kwale have resolved that Raila is our candidate. The man to watch is Raila,&rdquo; said Juma Boy. Oparanya said they will support plans by Wetang&rsquo;ula to add more votes to the ODM basket so that the western alliance remains solid.Dr Paul Otuoma seized the moment to declare he is in ODM to stay. &ldquo;The fact that I resigned from my post does not mean disrespect to the party,&rdquo; he said.Kisumu Senator Anyang Nyong&rsquo;o and his Siaya counterpart James Orengo accused Jubilee of trying to divert Kenyans attention from real issues. &ldquo;Do not think of heroes, the topic is meant to divert attention from Eurobond and other serious matters,&rdquo; Nyong&rsquo;o said.