I returned from a two-day visit to Addis Ababa on October 19, the eve of our Heroes Day appropriately christened Mashujaaa Day. Addis reminds you of the gross irony that is Kenya&rsquo;s lionising of dwarfs, amid a deluge of unsung heroes. In 1986, David Goldsworthy published a book titled Tom Mboya: The Man Kenya Wanted to Forget. Did Goldsworthy speak too soon?You are reminded of how, in 2003, Kenya imported and fussed around an Ethiopian peasant. Officialdom cast him in the role of a lost national icon. They flew the iconic Ethiopian Eunuch into Nairobi on a first class ticket. They hosted him in the Presidential Suite of a five star hotel. Later, they carried out a DNA test, to confirm that he was Kenya&rsquo;s long lost hero of the freedom struggle. Thirteen years on, the results of the DNA test remain a mystery.Do we seem to thirst for heroes and role models amidst a surfeit of unsung champions? How do we explain our high drama with this sham General Stanley Mathenge of Ethiopia in 2003? Mashujaa Day was itself something of a sham and an embarrassment. Here in Emanyulia, we noted with utter disbelief what looked like a deliberate omission of some critical names in Kenya&rsquo;s story, this far. Our President does not consider Jaramogi Oginga Odinga and his son Raila Odinga to be national heroes. Now, I have a lot of problems with some of the things the Son of the Bull does and says. His choice of occasion and style increasingly baffle me. He especially imagines that he alone is right on anything and everything. The rest of us are right only when we agree with him. Now this is how a progressive leader morphs into a crackpot dictator. Yet there can be no denying that Raila&rsquo;s great place in our history. Those who do not know why do not even deserve to be told. Let me however say something about Jaramogi. Maybe it is a factor of age and memory. The President&rsquo;s prompters are either strangers to Kenya&rsquo;s memory, or juvenile &ndash; or both. If not, they are driven by sheer malice. It is recalled that on the eve of the country&rsquo;s independence, the British urged Jaramogi to form the first Madaraka Government, with himself as the Prime Minister. However, the Bull refused. He was categorical that there would be no independence without Jomo Kenyatta firmly in the saddle of leadership.Mzee Kenyatta &ndash; President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s father &ndash; was under restrictive detention. History records that there were many who were prepared to take a shortcut to Uhuru, without Jomo. But Jaramogi would not have any of this. That was how the clarion call &ldquo;Uhuru na Kenyatta&rdquo; was born. People like James Gichuru and Gikonyo Kiano urged Jaramogi to form a Madaraka Government and consider releasing Mzee from detention only after independence. Jaramogi refused. If other Kenyans lionised Jomo, Jaramogi deified him. He carried hyperbole into the neighbourhood of blasphemy. He said to the world, &ldquo;Kenyatta is our God.&rdquo; Maybe this apotheosis of Kenyatta angered the divine world? It turned Divinity against Jaramogi? Did Divinity then determine that Jaramogi should never taste of that high seat he surrendered to Jomo, after equating him to God?Whatever the case, this was sacrifice. It was selflessness. Without it, Mzee&rsquo;s history and the destiny of some people &ndash; whom it is not necessary to mention &ndash; would certainly have been different. They say in Kiswahili that if you must massacre the Wagalla man, please do not deny him his right. If only for this historical anecdote, it was wrong for State House to rubbish Jaramogi.President Kenyatta ignored many other heroes, too. He refused to acknowledge Tom Mboya, a great man who made great mistakes, but a towering Kenyan nonetheless. Any list that does not recognise him can only deserve contempt. There are others too, whom Kenya&rsquo;s aristocracy would like to forget: Ronald Ngala, Ambrose Ofafa, Yusuf Wabera, Ochola Makanyengo, J D Kali, Sammy Muhanji, Clement Lubembe, Wasonga Sijeyo, Walter Mbotela, James Beauttah, Mukaru Ng&rsquo;anga, Katama Mukangi, Bidald Kaggia, Lawrence Sagini, Moses Amalemba, Kung&rsquo;u Karumba, JM Kariuki, Chelagat Mutai, JM Seroney, Chief Gitonga of Kitui, Argwings kodhek, Masinde Muliro, Wasike Ndombi, Odindo Opiata, Titus Adung&rsquo;osi, Wafula Siakama, Dennis Akumu, Bishops Alex Muge, Henry Okullu, Manases Kuria, David Gitari &ndash; these are national icons about whom so little is ever heard.It is grotesque remiss to rubbish these heroes&rsquo; contribution to Kenya&rsquo;s national discourse. So, too, is the contribution of people like Phoebe Asiyo, Jael Mbogo, JD Otiende, Mashengu wa Mwachofi, Grace Onyango, Margaret Kenyatta (not to be mistaken for Her Excellency the First Lady), John Keen, Hilary Ng&rsquo;weno, Joe Masiga, Tegla Loroupe and Awori Wa Kataka, all of whom are still in the land of the living. My list does not include those whom the President acknowledged.These are heroic and iconic Kenyans. Maybe their story will someday be told. Mashujaa Day is set aside for the collective national consciousness to coalesce such people. For, they represent what is good in us. They restore the hope that the negative energies that tend to drive us can be tamed; that they will not destroy our country. To attempt to flush these heroes&rsquo; memory into the cesspit of history defeats the purpose of Mashujaa Day. Worse still is the habit of lionising common political scoundrels and cocktails of well known economic saboteurs and thieves.When we give to economic saboteurs, regular caricatures and sundry buccaneers and miscreants the tag of national heroes, it is maybe just as well to spare our true heroes the discomfiture of being on the same list. Future generations with no axes to grind will decorate them, someday. This is provided that State House does not hound them out of the history books. Do we need a permanent national heroes institution to research and document our heroes stories? Do we need to separate this from political whim?