Pressure is mounting on those responsible for the Sh5 billion theft at the Ministry of Health to be charged.In Parliament, three House committees separately read the riot act, with lawmakers singling out Health Cabinet Secretary Cleopha Maillu and Principal Secretary Nicholas Muraguri as among those who should step aside pending investigations into the scam, now touted as the biggest under the Jubilee government. The Senate Health Committee, the National Assembly Public Accounts Committee (PAC) and Public Investments Committee (PIC) said they will interrogate the contents of a forensic audit that revealed a systematic manipulation of systems to aid in the theft.At the Senate committee, where&nbsp; Dr Maillu and Dr Muraguri failed to turn up for grilling, members asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to crack the whip on top ministry officials who either perpetrated the scam or slept on their job as the theft was executed.&ldquo;We have taken great exception to these matters, which are already in the public domain. The Senate upholds and respects the rule of law. Embezzling public funds is something that has now become normal,&rdquo; said Senator Wilfred Machage (Migori). The committee rescheduled the grilling for Tuesday next week.&ldquo;The magnitude of the issue is so important that it is imperative they appear here and allay the fears of the nation. It is important that they shed more light,&rdquo; he said.STEP ASIDE&ldquo;People must take political responsibility, as this is a matter we cannot take lying down. They should step aside. The President should tell them to step aside. The scandals in this country have become so many,&rdquo; said Senator Abdirahman Hassan (Wajir).&ldquo;The country is tired of corruption. The officers in the ministry should come out clean, and if they are not clean, let them go home. As we wait for them to appear next week, action should be taken immediately,&rdquo; said Zipporah Kittony (nominated).The National Assembly PIC has already sent out summons to head of parastatals mentioned in the report.Those summoned are heads of Kenyatta National Hospital, the Kenya Medical Training College, Kenya Medical Supplies Agency and the National Aids Control Council. Some of the parastatals were alleged recipients of the alleged supplies or aided the stealing.