CORD leader Raila Odinga has faulted the Jubilee administration for failure to tame cattle rustling in Kerio Valley.He regretted that the menace is threatening to reverse gains made in the region over the past decade.The former Prime Minister said schools have been closed, children orphaned, the elderly have fled their homes while farms have been abandoned. &ldquo;I wish to draw the attention of President Uhuru Kenyatta and the Jubilee administration, to the carnage and lawlessness that has gone on in the Kerio Valley since May, between the Pokot and the Marakwet and which is getting intense with each passing day. Children are being orphaned and the elderly fleeing their homes. Life has come to a stand still for the people while the Government remains silent,&rdquo; Raila said.In a statement issued from London, the CORD leader accused the national government of failing to provide security in the area.&ldquo;Security agencies on the ground seem incapable, immobilised and unwilling to provide the much-needed support and are content with just supervising the anarchy. It is our hope that the national government has not given up also on providing security to our citizens,&rdquo; Raila said.He added: &ldquo;The President cannot afford to give up on a role that is distinctly his, of providing security to all Kenyans in every part of the country. We need a firm, fair and honest hand of the national government in Kerio Valley with immediate effect.&rdquo;He challenged leaders from the Pokot and Marakwet communities to break their silence and speak against cattle rustling.&ldquo;I recognise that on their own, the two communities have done all they can to bring peace to themselves through their elders, community-based organisations, youth and women groups. I appeal to the two communities to keep pushing for peaceful co-existence,&rdquo; Raila added.He noted: &ldquo;I also appeal to the two communities to appreciate themselves as victims of years of State neglect, massacres and marginalisation. They should therefore stop fighting each other and instead jointly confront the national government with demands for their rightful share of development and compensation as recommended by the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission.&rdquo;Yesterday, young professionals from Marakwet demanded resignation of National Assembly chairman for Committee on Administration and National Security and Tiaty MP Asman Kamama, accusing him of taking sides on cattle rustling.Led by the chairman of the National Council of NGOs Stephen Cheboi, the professionals said banditry in Kerio Valley has caused insecurity and poverty and displacement of families.&ldquo;The cattle rustling by bandits from the neighbouring county should be stopped immediately. People in the region are ambushed at night and this has prompted women and children to spend nights in caves. Children are no longer going to school and businesses have also been affected as a result of the menace,&rdquo; said Mr Cheboi.Since March, he said, 30 people have reportedly lost their lives as a result of cattle rustling and more than 20,000 displaced.&ldquo;Tot Sub-County Hospital has been closed and 150 school learning programmes disrupted. We call for safety of over 5,000 students and teachers as they go for the end year exams. We want leaders from Baringo, West Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet to come out strongly and preach peace,&rdquo; he said.Constitution &amp; Reform Education Consortium (CRECO) Deputy director Joshua Chepkwony, blamed the government for laxity in resolving the conflict.He accused local leaders of failing to effectively represent the people.Burying victims&ldquo;Elected leaders from the region pour their anger on social media instead of approaching Interior Cabinet Secretary for help. The leaders have remained silent yet they announce in public that they are in government and they cannot provide a solution to cattle rustling which has caused loss of lives in Kerio Valley,&rdquo; said Sammy Kiplimo, Kerio Valley resident.Kiplimo lamented that the displaced families have never received support from any relief agency, a scenario which prompted residents to distribute foodstuff, blankets and clothing to them. A local administration officer from the region told The Standard on Sunday that despite the presence of security officers in the region, nothing much has been done to secure the residents.&ldquo;The leaders should take responsibility and come together to seek solutions to this issue. We are tired of burying victims of banditry. This week, we buried a young man in his early 20s from Kasui Village who was killed by the raiders.&ldquo;The government should provide a lasting solution so that residents can live in peace in their homes instead of living with snakes in caves,&rdquo; said a local administrator who requested anonymity.