For the umpteenth time now, the country has been presented with yet another god-sent opportunity to get it right on the quality of the persons to run the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. For those stuck in the groove of our mundane politicking, the current process of reconstituting the electoral commission may be just another perfunctory episode in the long-running drama of our public affairs. This may be the same for those of us who have been tortured by the contours of our politics into submitting to the flow of things, accepting outcomes as they are and placing little expectations on such important processes as this. The fact of the matter, however, is that this is not an ordinary process and the outcome must not be ordinary. As the panel begins its work, Kenyans of goodwill must lay terms and genuine expectations they have of this process. They must place legitimate concerns and expectations on&nbsp; the process. One, Kenyans expect the panel will recruit top-of-the-range quality individuals in terms of their suitability and qualification to hold such exalted office. They must be men and women beyond reproach in terms of their integrity, disposition and virtue. The greatest virtue they must possess is excellence in their chosen areas of occupation. Two, Kenyans are entitled to a transformative set of commissioners who are motivated into service by higher ideals beyond the mundane. The realm of skulduggery, sloth, incompetence and such is a no-go zone this time round and so are those preoccupied with search for money, fame or power. READ MORE Civil society raises red flag over loopholes in Kenya's new electoral laws IEBC selection panel vows to pick the best Leaks are bad for politics and journalism If we get it wrong on this we will end up recruiting merchants, buccaneers and &ldquo;tenderprenuers&rdquo;. Three, Kenyans want men and women with the positive ethos and fresh outlook, the kind the Kriegler Commission envisioned. These are men and women whom, in their outlook, are keen to cultivate new beginnings for the troubled commission, ones who will attract and command the respect of the overbearing political class. They must not be like flags to be blown thither and hither by every wind which blows their way. They must have strong characters, like Julius Caesar, constant like the northern star, and yet ones who must be flexible in appreciating the mosaic of the national fabric. Four, our new IEBC commissioners must be God-fearing citizens. It is an open secret, in all religions, that the fear of God is the beginning of wisdom. The new commissioners must demonstrate their respect for God&rsquo;s creation, will and purpose in their demeanour and conduct. They must value and appreciate God&rsquo;s gifts of order, justice and peace. Five, Kenyans want the new commissioners to be men and women of great understanding. Our past experience with parochial minds has not been so pleasant. A great effort must be made to identify those amongst us who are highly perceptive and endowed with special gifts befitting public service. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;