A war of words has ensued between Nakuru Governor Kinuthia Mbugua and Jubilee governor aspirant Lee Kinyanjui. Mr Kinyanjui had in recent media reports accused Mbugua of non-performance. He alleged that the governor had failed to initiate a single project since 2013 when he was elected despite the county receiving more than Sh40 billion from the Exchequer. The aspirant also claimed that there was nothing to justify the huge resources received from the national government, promising if given the opportunity, he would salvage the county from &ldquo;misrule&rdquo; and initiate meaningful development. &ldquo;With nothing to commission and having failed to account for over Sh44 billion, the only remaining platform for rhetoric is funerals and graduations where we alway say, &lsquo;leo si siku ya siasa&rsquo; (not a day to politic),&rdquo; he said. POLITICAL NEOPHYTE But in a swift rejoinder, Mr Mbugua described Kinyanjui&rsquo;s comments as &ldquo;malicious and ranting of a political neophyte seeking relevance.&rdquo; READ MORE MCAs&rsquo; report says most ECDE projects poorly done Jubilee and ODM brace for tight contest in Nakuru Pupils study in dusty classrooms as teachers go for months without salary Addressing residents during a tour of Kuresoi North, the governor said he was so committed to delivering on his &lsquo;covenant&rsquo; with Nakuru people and transformation agenda, and that he would not be distracted by critics. Mr Mbugua criticised Kinyanjui&rsquo;s tenure at the helm of the National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA). He claimed road safety rules imposed on motor cycle riders, under Kinyanjui&rsquo;s watch, were unfair and frustrating boda boda operators. The governor enumerated various development projects he had initiated in the region including nursery classrooms that have been constructed as a key indicator of his achievements. CRITICAL STANCE Speaking in Olenguruone where he was among guests at a thanksgiving ceremony for Director of Special Programmes Ezekiel Kesendanyi, who had graduated from St Paul&rsquo;s University, Mbugua told off Kinyanjui over his stance on the governor&rsquo;s mortuary project. It was the second time, the governor has publicly attacked Kinyajui in a span of less than two weeks. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;