Opposition leaders Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka met to calm fears that their rivalry over the CORD presidential ticket was tearing the coalition apart and to also assure supporters that they were still standing together. The midday meeting at Raila&rsquo;s Capitol Hill office came hot on the heels of heated exchanges among the coalition&rsquo;s three co-principals on the formula for picking the flag-bearer. The other bone of contention was whether the ODM leader shouldn&rsquo;t step down for either Kalonzo or Ford-Kenya&rsquo;s Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula. Supporters of Raila, Kalonzo and Wetang&rsquo;ula have all insisted their respective party leaders are best suited to fly the coalition&rsquo;s flag in coming polls, putting CORD affiliate parties at loggerheads. A source at Raila&rsquo;s office said the two leaders talked for close to three hours. Kalonzo has repeatedly said he has sacrificed for other leaders in the past, insisting it was time for Raila to reciprocate by backing his bid for State House. READ MORE Handle Raila claim on Tunnel project cautiously Raila Odinga urges Murang&rsquo;a leaders to face truth on water project Mudavadi party wins from Jubilee Party fallout Wetang&rsquo;ula is also seeking the Orange Democratic Movement leader&rsquo;s exit from the ticket race, arguing he should not run this time round since he has lost three times. The Bungoma Senator wants Raila to play a king-maker role and support a ticket bringing him and Kalonzo together. Wetang&rsquo;ula&rsquo;s personal assistant Mandu Mandu told The Standard the Senator skipped the meeting because he was unwell. Mandu explained Wetang&rsquo;ula communicated his apologies to the two co-principals before the meeting took place. &ldquo;He was unwell and sent apologies to Raila and Kalonzo. He will attend subsequent meetings,&rdquo; he said. Yesterday, Raila posted a photograph of himself with Kalonzo after the meeting and said they discussed unity of the coalition. &ldquo;Consulting with my brother @skmusyoka earlier. We reaffirm the unity of our Coalition to deliver democracy and reforms to the Kenyan people,&rdquo; Raila posted on his twitter account. &ldquo;The two Principals met today and talked about Coalition unity. CORD is strong and ready for 2017,&rdquo; added ODM Communications Director Philip Etale. Details of the meeting, however, remained scanty despite our effort to dig out more. The co-principals have differed on key issues to be considered in determining the coalition&rsquo;s flag-bearer in the 2017 General Election. Further jitters in the coalition have been occasioned by the&nbsp; possibility of Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi having a deal with CORD, in a political formation that could see some of the leaders in the coalition overshadowed. Kalonzo earlier expressed discomfort, saying Mudavadi should not be favoured in the event he joins hands with the Raila-led coalition, &ldquo;since he has not sacrificed for the cause like the co-principals.&rdquo; GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;