Rebecca Ekeno recounts the shooting incident in which her daughter Felistus Ekaale (right) was hit. She was rushed to Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital. [Photo: Kevin Tunoi] Two daughters of the ODM candidate for the Kalokol ward by-election in Turkana County were shot during an attack on Tuesday night. Josphat Ekeno was not at home during the attack. Eight-year-old Felistus Ekaale is admitted to Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital (MTRH) in Eldoret with a bullet lodged in her body. &ldquo;We had to authorise quick medical attention at MTRH for the girl because she suffered a penetrative chest injury as the bullet is still lodged in the chest, close to the heart,&rdquo; said Lodwar County Referral Medical Superintendent Gilchrist Lokoel. Another daughter aged 19 sustained minor injuries from the exchange of fire and was treated at Lodwar County Referral Hospital. READ MORE ODM, Ford-K field separate candidates in by-election Violence marred by-election preparations, with heavy shooting being reported on Monday night and Wednesday morning moments after voting commenced. A shaken Rebecca Ekeno, the mother of the girl, who endured a 12-hour journey to get her daughter to Eldoret, said the gunmen attacked at 9.30pm on Tuesday night. &ldquo;My husband, who is vying for the Kalokol seat, came home at around 8pm and we had dinner together but he left soon after, expressing fear that his political enemies were after his life,&rdquo; said Ms Ekeno. She said her husband left with his driver and two Kenya Police Reservists after dinner but a few minutes later, heavy gunshots rent the air. &ldquo;My husband then called and told me that there had been an attempted attack on him near the election command centre in Kalokol. He told me a group of men in three cars had fired at his car, forcing his driver to speed to the centre, where there were security personnel, for refuge,&rdquo; she said. While she was still talking to her husband, she realised there was a group of men at the main entrance of their home. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 Next &raquo;