In 2006, I started experiencing eye problems where both my eyes would water from time to time. Because this eye irritation would come and go on its own, I paid it no heed - treating it as something that would pass.At the time, I was working as a matatu driver plying the Nakuru town and Langa Langa route and I had this mistaken belief that my line of work was contributing to the eye problem. I was a driver for nine years.It became hard to concentrate and when the eye problem continued, I decided to seek medical attention. I was diagnosed with glaucoma and was told my optic nerves were very damaged and this would lead to permanent blindness in both eyes. My loss of vision was gradual. One moment I could see something clearly then I would notice the clarity slowly fading. This would happen until finally, my world went completely black.Had I known the pressure in the eyes leading to their watering was a symptom of an underlying disease, I would have sought treatment earlier and believe I would not be blind today.Incapacitated by blindness and unable to provide for my family anymore, my wife took our four children and left. I became consumed by self-pity where I would expect others to empathise and sympathise with my condition but after a while, I realised this was futile.In 2007, I joined a group of persons living with disability where I learnt the trade of mending shoes and walking using a blind cane. It took one whole year to learn to adjust to this new world and after the training was over, I relocated to Karemenu village in Nakuru North District where my mother lives.I did not immediately begin working as a cobbler. Part of my reluctance was the feeling of stigmatisation but I gradually began accepting who I am and ventured under the eaves of a shop and started my trade.Many are the challenges I encounter on a daily basis but I remain undeterred.It surprises me when I repair a customer&rsquo;s shoes and when I tell them the cost they say I am charging exorbitantly for a &lsquo;simple&rsquo; repair job. Some do not pay at all or others will abuse me based on my condition claiming I am too blind to &lsquo;see&rsquo; the extent of the repairs I had undertaken.I have nonetheless learnt to take this on stoically and keep doing what I do, trusting in the skill I was taught.Telling the value of paper money is another challenge. Some customers are not forthright but I rely on people close to me who can tell me the value of the money I have been paid. Telling the value of coins is easy.If everyone can be honest with me, understand that blindness does not make one abnormal and pay commensurate to service rendered, then persons with disabilities would feel they are accepted by society. Like any other person, I work to put food on the table and pay rent.