The just-concluded Bungoma International Investment Conference brought a ray of hope to the region, Governor Ken Lusaka has said. At the end of the three-day conference, investors had pledged Sh14.3 billion in trade deals, a figure Lusaka said underscored the success of the event. &ldquo;The investors will invest in construction, agriculture, business, mining, ICT, health and education which are the key sectors and that will go a long way in helping our people. This is a great milestone,&rdquo; Mr Lusaka said. He added that the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding was a sign that investors had chosen Bungoma as a business hub. The conference, which started on Wednesday, attracted more than 200 exhibitors and 2,000 participants. It was organised by the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry, whose chairman Kiprono Kittony asked counties to provide such platforms as a way of attracting investors. &ldquo;Kenya can be a great country if we allow foreigners to invest here. They have wealth to share and we need to give them room through the provision of land and other amenities. Once they invest in our counties, jobs will be created and our people will benefit,&rdquo; Mr Kittony said. READ MORE Conference to unlock Bungoma county's potential 20 Ford Kenya officials in Bungoma join Jubilee Party Bungoma County to host investment conference The conference was graced by Industrialisation, Trade and Cooperatives Cabinet Secretary Aden Mohammed, who asked county governments to lower fees imposed on local traders. &ldquo;Counties are charging exorbitant fees. We are appealing to them to lower them to encourage more people to participate in business. This will in turn attract foreign investors who previously feared to invest in the counties,&rdquo; he said. Mohammed said county governments have the ability to attract investors but the high fees levied on businesses scare them. Trans Nzoia Governor Patrick Khaemba asked counties to provide land for investors. &ldquo;Investors are willing but lack of land puts them off. Land should be readily available for those keen on putting up factories, schools or any other investment,&rdquo; Mr Khaemba said. He added that investors were finding Tanzania and Uganda ideal for them because of availability of land.