Deputy President William Ruto yesterday told the Opposition not to ask for support from foreign nations as Kenya prepares for next year&rsquo;s General Elections.Speaking a day after ODM leader Raila Odinga urged Western countries to finance Opposition parties in Africa, Ruto claimed a similar campaign had been spearheaded by the Opposition when he and President Uhuru Kenyatta had cases at the International Criminal Court.&ldquo;It is unfortunate the Opposition is asking foreigners to fund their campaigns. Those are unnecessary demands and they should note that foreigners will not decide for us. In 2013, voters were told not to vote for us because of our cases, but we won,&rdquo; Ruto said. He said Kenyans should be left to exercise their freedom of choice without undue influence from any quarters. &ldquo;In the forthcoming elections, Kenyans will decide who their leaders are. The contest for leadership in 2017 is already framed and Kenyans will base it on our development record,&rdquo; the DP said. He told the Opposition to come out clear and tell the electorate their plans and what they would do for Kenyans if elected.&ldquo;What the Opposition knows best is demonstrations. I think it is high time they outlined their manifestos to Kenyans and stopped blaming the Jubilee government which has achieved its development score card,&rdquo; Ruto said.The DP was speaking at St Mathews Bukhalire Boys High School in Butula Constituency, Busia County, during a funds drive.Ignored oppositionRaila on Friday made a strong case for foreign funding of Opposition political parties. He spoke at the London political summit hosted by the London Metropolitan University.&ldquo;The West has tended to devote resources to building the capacities of incumbents and ignored opposition parties. Showering incumbents with aid and ignoring the Opposition often achieves the undesired effect of encouraging the governing parties to embrace the old ways of corruption, dictatorship and lack of accountability and transparency,&rdquo; Raila said.In Busia, Ruto was accompanied by MPs Mary Emase (Teso South), Michael Onyura (Butula), Deputy Governor Kizito Wangalwa and former MPs Raphael Wanjala and Christine Mango.Emase said Busia residents were ready to work with the Jubilee Administration.&ldquo;I want to assure the Deputy President that Busia residents will support the government and all they want is more development,&rdquo; she said.Ruto asked the residents to join Jubilee Party, saying it is an inclusive political vehicle bringing together Kenyans from all over the country.&ldquo;I am optimistic we shall form the government in 2017. I ask Busia residents to let us work together as we prepare for next polls. I know no one goes to an election hoping to be in the Opposition. You get yourself there by accident and I know Busia is tired of that,&rdquo; he said.It is the third time this month the DP is pitching tent in Western region, a perceived Opposition stronghold.