Three people have been hospitalised at Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret after a machete-wielding gang struck Marakusi village in Lugari, Kakamega County.A middle-aged woman was raped and a nine year-old girl defiled during the attack. The attack comes barely a week after six gangsters raped a woman and her daughter-in-law at Bondeni village still in Lugari. The gang in Bondeni attempted to defile a 10-year-old daughter during the attack Yesterday, the victims were hacked inside their homesteads and household goods stolen.&quot;The gang of more than 10 people attacked my home at mid night. They broke the door using a stone and threatened to kill us if we dared scream for help. Five of them tied my mouth with a rug and dragged me to the sitting room where they tied my face with a piece of cloth as they beat me with rungus before raping me,&quot; the woman explained.The husband pleaded with them to leave his wife but they turned on him and the nine year old daughter.&quot;After they were through, they tied my legs and hands with a rope on the chair and took two phones and household essentials,&quot; she noted.When they left she managed to untie the rope and rushed to check on others only to find his husband bleeding and her daughter crying in pain.&quot;You cannot imagine the anguish I am going through. I have been raped, my nine year defiled and crying in pain while my husband injured on the head and various parts of the body. The pain is so much, the security personnel need to investigate and establish more police posts since we are no longer safe,&quot; she said amid sobs. She raised alarm and neighbours came and took them to Lumakanda sub county hospital before they were transferred to Eldoret.Recalling the scene while at the hospital, the husband said the gang demanded to be given money but when he answered that he did not have it they tied him on the bed and cut him with a panga on the head.&quot;They also threatened to cut off my knees but when they were undressing me they saw a scar on my stomach. They left me when I explained to them that I am supposed to go back to hospital for second operation,&quot; the 33 year old man narrated.After leaving his home, they raided another home of Mr Stephene Ashiundu, beat him with her daughter before disappearing with goods of unknown value.Speaking after visiting the victims, Lugari ward Mca Musa Makhapila condemned the act and asked the officers in charge to speed their investigations and bring the suspects to book.&quot;Insecurity in this area has been alarming for the past weeks. People are being robbed, women and children being subjected to torture. Police need to find new ways to handle this before the situation gets worse,&quot; Ashiundu said.The incident was confirmed by the area chief Evans Adavaji who said police have started investigation. &quot;This is very unfortunate warning the culprits that their days are numbered for creating tension and terrorising villages,&quot; he said.