Kenyans are hypocrites. That is the message being sent across the country as Kenyans come to terms with the sad news of musician Lydia Achieng Abura&rsquo;s demise.Sadly, Achieng did not exit the stage happy as would have been befitting a musician of her stature. There was neither piano or backup singers nor was there pomp and colour as is characteristic of the business. The&nbsp;great&nbsp;songbird&nbsp;did not take her final bow on a crescendo!On Thursday, while Kenyans were recognising their heroes on Mashujaa Day, Kenya&rsquo;s finest Afro-fusion musician quietly passed away at Kenyatta National Hospital. Alone. Her last worried thoughts probably being about the welfare of her son. The first salvo on Kenyans&rsquo; hypocritical stance was fired by flamboyant lawyer Donald Kipkorir on Facebook. In a long post, Mr Kipkorir -- himself famous for flaunting images of his immense wealth and how he enjoys the good life on Facebook -- pointed out that the songstress just needed Sh12 million to fund the treatment of her son&rsquo;s Sickle Cell Anaemia condition but many organisations she had worked with did not come to her aid.He took issue with several of her friends who did not even attend a fundraiser she had organised but are now coming together in death when they should have been helpful in life.Achieng&rsquo;s 23-year-old son is currently ailing and his mother had been trying to raise funds for his treatment in London but she was not successful. At the time of her death, those close to her say her main worry was her son and his failing health.That Achieng was not in good health was not a secret. In her last Facebook post on October 7, she wrote thus: I have lost over 50kgs in the last three years. Everything is hanging and weak. Walking is a problem with pains all over. Doctor says I must add 30kgs then lose it as I exercise and firm up. The irony of life. I was not even losing weight intentionally! I allowed life to get the better of me. Learn from my mistakes.&rdquo;Known by many as Kenya&rsquo;s finest Afro-fusion artiste with a strong voice often decorated with &lsquo;tremolo&rsquo; &lsquo;conbrio&rsquo; &lsquo;fuoco&rsquo; and &lsquo;spirito&rsquo;, her death has left the music industry poorer.Her passion for music was ignited when her parents bought her a grand piano for her 11th birthday. She was gifted this for getting high grades in school. Her journey in the world of music had begun. Very few artistes mix talent and brains but unknown to many Achieng had a Master&rsquo;s degree in Chemistry hence her undeniable participation in environmental programmes.She changed many lives through her social advocacy. When she decided to fuse her academics with talent, she birthed a force which saw her traverse the world to perform and educate. Her concerts took her to Uganda, Tanzania, Zanzibar, Senegal, Eritrea, South Africa, Spain, Greece, England, US, France, Germany, Denmark and Netherlands.As a mentor, she helped many artistes discover their true talent and always stayed relevant to the music industry. She shaped stars while serving as principal at Tusker Project Fame (TPF), Kenya&rsquo;s music reality show. Achieng was one of the most decorated artistes in Kenya and the&nbsp;Great&nbsp;Lakes region. She was a Goodwill Ambassador UNDP/MDG and WWF Earth Hour Eastern Africa. Granted, her accolades are for the books and epitomise a legend in the music industry.While she suffered no fools and always stood her ground, her keen musical ear was self-evident, often directing rookies to the right key.Suzanna Owiyo, close friend and fellow&nbsp;songbird&nbsp;remembers their many collaborations and fights tears recalling their last conversation.&ldquo;I went to see Lydia on Monday then on Tuesday when I realised she was giving up, it broke my heart. I became who I am today because of her and I still can&rsquo;t believe she is gone,&rdquo; Owiyo said.Ohangla Makadem another Afro-fusion artiste says they spoke last week and he circulated Achieng&rsquo;s call for help in their WhatsApp groups, but sadly nothing came through.&ldquo;How does one mention Achieng&rsquo; without including her son Prince?&rdquo; posed David Muriithi aka DJ D-Lite. The distinct thing I&rsquo;ll always remember about her is her dedication to her only child. She once told me without him, she wouldn&rsquo;t have been getting up so early daily.&rdquo;David&rsquo;s friendship with Achieng goes back over 20 years and together with local musicians such as Suzanne Gachukia, Bruce Odhiambo, Tedd Josiah (her one-time producer), Mercy Myra, Harrison Katana, Juma Odemba (Original Kayamba), they are referred to as veterans of Kenya&rsquo;s music industry.It is not easy to eulogise a legend but Achieng will be remembered for nurturing many well-known musicians. Her contribution to the creative sector will remain immortal.Lydia Achieng Abura, was born 52 years ago. She was a mother, a musician, a mentor, a scientist and a social activist whose contribution to Kenya&rsquo;s creative industry will forever be remembered. She is survived by her son, Prince. @adhyambo