Nairobi, Kenya: The government has admitted having prior intelligence over suspected Al-Shabaab attack in Mandera that claimed six lives and left 25 others injured. Yesterday, Government spokesperson Eric Kiraithe disclosed that security agencies had gathered intelligence over the dawn attack. However, he stated that the information was not accurate, making the country&#39;s security agencies unable to deter the pending terror attack. This new revelation points yet again to security lapses in the country that Al Shabaab militants have capitalized to launch their attacks against the country that has suffered the brunt of the Somalia-based terror group. &quot;There was intelligence on the intention to attack but there was no actual and accurate intelligence,&quot; Kiraithe said yesterday during a press briefing in Nairobi. The incident happened at about 2am on Thursday at a residential plot in Bulla as the tenants were asleep. Those affected were non locals. Police said the attackers shot at the victims randomly after they had broken into the plot. READ MORE Pursue the Al-Shabbab Six people killed in suspected al-Shabaab attack in Mandera Women in Boko Haram fighting, not just cooking and cleaning - researchers Kiraithe confirmed that the security fence as a buffer of the porous Kenya-Somalia border is ongoing but warned that the wall is a measure of deterrence and not a solution to terrorism challenge. He urged the citizenry to provide information to security agencies as a cardinal obligation of patriotic Kenyans. However, there is mounting intrigues of the actual perpetrators of horrific attack amid fears that the Thursday dawn invasion could have been perpetrated by a local criminal gang disguising themselves as Al Shabaab seeking to flush out non locals from the area. Kiraithe said the country would not be cowed by the Al Shabaab militants. Residents said police response was swift and that the attackers were heavily armed. The militants were about 20 at the time of the attack raising questions how they managed to move in. Mandera governor Ali Roba termed the incident as a sad attack. &quot;We have suffered another sad attack in Mandera where six have been confirmed dead and one seriously injured.We grieve with our families,&quot; he said in a tweet. He thanked police for the timely response adding 27 out of 33 occupants of a plot were saved unhurt. The attack came as a surprise as security agents in the area seemed unaware of the same. There has been a lull of attacks in the area for the past months following intensified police operations. The area has in the past been a playing field for the militants who cross from the nearby Somalia border and strike before fleeing back. They have been targeting non locals and security agents in their attacks.