President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to attend a regional security summit to be held in Luanda, Angola. During the summit set to start Wednesday, President Kenyatta is expected to rally support for Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed for the African Union (AU) Commission chairperson position. Last week, Deputy President William Ruto was in Madagascar where leaders from the Common Market of Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA) endorsed Amina for the position. The High-Level Regional Oversight Mechanism for Peace and Security Cooperation will be focusing on the security situation in the region and will put a lot of focus on the current situation on Democratic Republic of Congo. &quot;The matter is urgent. Atrocities continue to be committed in DRC, and it is time to bring an end to the continued violence,&quot; said President Kenyatta&#39;s aide Manoah Esipisu in a statement. He added: &quot;The region is vital to the security and safety of the continent at large, and the President expects that an amicable solution to preserve the region&#39;s stability will be agreed in short order. READ MORE President wrong to blame institutions for runaway graft The buck stops with President on fight against corruption Kenneth drops 2017 presidential ambition, says he will vie for governor Other countries of focus will be Burundi and South Sudan. &quot;The President will express support for the process of dialogue in Burundi, which seeks common ground between all parties to the conflict,&quot; said Esipisu. Esipisu said: &quot;In South Sudan, the President expects that the parties will honour the agreement to lay down arms, and to return to the process of building Africa&#39;s youngest nation, while meeting the serious humanitarian needs that have arisen as a consequence of the fighting over the last few years.&quot; While at the Summit, Esipisu said, the President will also continue to lobby leaders in the southern and central African region to support CS Amina&#39;s candidacy for the AU Commission chair. &quot;It is imperative that we build a coalition across the continent in favour of Kenya&#39;s candidate if we are to get Amb. Amina elected &ndash; an election we think would considerably strengthen the AU Commission and its influence in global affairs,&quot; said Esipisu.