A distraught family in Butali, Kakamega County is praying for the safe return of their eight-year-old daughter who went missing on September 9, 2016.Esther Juma, a Standard Two pupil at Kamukywa Primary School, had been staying with her aunt Dorcas Wekesa for two weeks before she went missing.Dorcas says that on the fateful day, her niece left school at around 4pm and came to the clinic where she works. The aunt says she stepped out briefly to attend to clients at a cyber cafe nearby and did not find her niece when she returned. &ldquo;I assumed she was outside playing with her friends but when an hour went by and I had not seen her, I became worried. I went to check with her friends who told me they had not seen her,&rdquo; Dorcas said.She immediately started searching for the little girl at the nearby estate at the market centre and she even boarded a matatu to Kaburengu and Webuye but Esther was nowhere to be seen.&ldquo;When evening came and I had not found her&#39;&nbsp;I decided to check at her parents home in Kamukuywa, thinking she had maybe decided to go back home but she was not there. Her parents were shocked to learn that Esther was missing and we combined efforts to look for her but it has been futile,&rdquo; Dorcas said.She said Esther had once gone missing for three days and was later found at a relative&rsquo;s place. This time however, days have turned into weeks and there is still no word where she can be.&ldquo;Her missing is a nightmare to me. I never expected such an incidence to happen. I cannot sleep or even concentrate with my work since her disappearance,&rdquo; Dorcas said amid sobs.Esther&rsquo;s disappearance was reported to the area village elder, the Butali/Chegulo ward Chief and Malava Police Station who are helping in the search.&ldquo;Every time we talk, her parents ask me if I have found her. I do not know what to tell them, I am raked with guilt because their child got lost while in my care.As the days go by, I also get worried since I do not know what step they will take next and I do not wish to destroy my relationship with them,&rdquo; the distraught aunt said.Wekesa describes her niece as a humble and bright girl who is always among the top five in class.&ldquo;I am pleading with the person holding her to please inform the nearest police station or contact me. She is my sister&rsquo;s child and her loss is tearing our family apart,&rdquo; she said.She recounted hearing stories of children who get lost noting that she never once thought the same fate would befall her family.&ldquo;Wherever Esther is, let her know we love her, miss her and we want her back. I have all the faith in the world that she will be found safe. Surely there must be someone who knows what happened and where my niece is - my appeal is that you do the right thing and bring back this little girl to us,&rdquo; Dorcas said.Anyone with information on Esther&rsquo;s whereabouts should get in touch with us via email: wednesdaylife@standardmedia.co.ke