They told my mother to take me to Nyumbani Children&rsquo;s home in Karen where I was to die in peace. She also had me baptised just in case the worst happened.To them, my condition of Herpes Zoster &mdash; which caused painful rashes and blisters to cover my body and that was brought about by complications of being HIV-positive &mdash; would not have seen me enjoy my teenage life.First forward 16 years on and not only did I celebrate my 24th birthday on August 8, but I am in perfect health. As a young lady, I feel more confident having reclaimed my beauty that is now far from my once scarred face that made my own sister keep off and denied me a chance to train as an air hostess.I am now a student at the Kenya Institute of Social Work and Community Development and I also work part time as a customer care agent at the Wilson Airport.My journey has, however, not been easy. Fighting off stigma took a toll on me and made me stop taking my medicine. Twice.The first time was when I had an argument with my mother (whom I blamed for my HIV status) and the second time was when we visited the famous doctor Loliondo in Tanzania.The visit to Loliondo with my mother cost about Sh100,000. We both had faith that we would be well after drinking from the cup and we stopped taking our medicine.My mother became really sick six months later and was forced to go back to ARVs but I kept my faith for almost two years. I used to travel to Kericho, pick my medicine and just store them.It was not until I developed a bad cough, that did not respond to any treatment, and was diagnosed with pneumonia that I resumed taking my medicine. It was a matter of life and death and I made the decision upon receiving advice from doctors and receiving counselling.Although my mother and I are both HIV-positive, my father is negative. We were a family of five but one of my brothers died of HIV related complications in 1999. All my other siblings are negative.I got to hear about my status, from my mother when I was 13 and she decided to tell me the reason behind my sickly life. I was however, already aware of it as I had earlier overheard a doctor tell my mum during a routine check-up.My status has caused me to be severally rejected by family members. I remember a time when a relative gave me my own cutlery and would disinfect them each time I used them.I have always found it strange that families are the greatest cause of stigma yet they are supposed to be a source of support.It is this stigma that forced my family to move to Kitengela from my ancestral home in Kisii County. It is also the same reason I had to travel to Kericho County to pick my drugs instead of Kisii where my family was well known.Today, most of my relatives get surprised when they see my mother and I. It still amazes them that we are not only alive but very well.I have learned that with proper management, being HIV-positive is not an automatic death sentence.