Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi yesterday demanded that the voter register be audited.Mudavadi further said the country should utilise data lying at the Registrar of Persons offices, as the move will save the country of billions of shillings. &quot;We should retrieve voters&#39; register from the Registrar of Persons data,&quot; Mudavadi said. &quot;It will save the country billions of shillings in the so-called voter registration. It will eliminate double registration and ghost voters.&quot;Mudavadi, who was addressing the Press in Machakos town after a meeting of the party&#39;s National Executive Council, said the country could do a trial run and apply the system to clean the existing register.&quot;Ideally, every Kenyan should only have one identity card in the form of an identification number. It is for lack of imagination in this digital age that a Kenyan must have different documents for birth, school, bank, employement, driver&#39;s license, tax, national ID and voter ID number,&quot; he said.The ANC leader added that Kenyans should acquire one identity at birth, and use it for various transactions and transitions until death.He said a single identity number should be used to automatically register a person as a voter. He said this would mean voter registration is automatic and one just needs to confirm registration for elections.&quot;In fact, with such an identify card, you do not have to be physically present on location to vote at a particular station. You would vote electronically, giving your preferences. This would reduce the cost of elections, reduce movement of people or put a stop to importation of voters during the election period,&quot; he said.ANC Secretary General Godfrey Atsotsi said Section 6 (3) of the amended Electoral Reforms law requires the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to undertake a professional audit of the voters&#39; register within 30 days upon commencement of the amended Act. The Act became operational on October 4 this year.Mr Atsotsi said by the time new commissioners are appointed, the deadline to audit the register would have expired.&quot;These mishaps exist because CORD and Jubilee restricted the amendments to themselves instead of entertaining wider participation. ANC made a workable proposal to retrieve Registrar of Persons data to make auditing the voters&#39; register easier and even be used to create permanent data for automated voter registration. Unfortunately, this proposal was ignored,&quot; he said.