ODM won three of the four ward by-elections held on Wednesday despite spirited campaigns by Jubilee.The party retained its seat in Mosiro Ward in Kajiado County after its candidate Peter Tirishe trounced Jubilee&rsquo;s Jonathan Koroine in a close contest.Twenty-four-year-old Tirishe garnered 1,079 votes against Koroine&rsquo;s 1,046 votes to carry the day in by-elections Jubilee was using to gauge its popularity ahead of next year&rsquo;s elections. At least 2,125 of the 2,342 registered voters took part in the mini poll occasioned by the death of former MCA Peter Korinyo in April.Koroine conceded defeat when returning officer Maurice Raria announced the results and promised to work with the winner for the greater good.Kajiado West MP Moses Sakuda, who led Jubilee campaigns also accepted the results. &ldquo;The people of Mosiro have spoken by electing their leader. Jubilee and ODM agreed to accept the verdict of the people and that is what we will do. What we need now is to unite the people and serve them without discrimination,&quot; said Sakuda.&nbsp;Governor David Nkedianye, who led the ODM brigade, said the result was a sign of things to come.&quot;This government should know intimidation, such as what happened in Mosiro recently, does not win votes. The Maasai people have also proved they cannot be bought,&quot; he said.Jubilee suffered a similar defeat in the Kajiado Central parliamentary by-election to replace Joseph Nkaisserry who was appointed Interior Cabinet Secretary.Similarly, ODM also stamped its authority in Kalokol Ward, Turkana County, where Josephat Ekeno garnered 1,715 votes to beat Jubilee&#39;s Simon Nangiro, who had 1,336.Independent candidate Peter Lotenga&#39;n had 101 votes while Ford Kenya&#39;s Michael Epem had 74.However, the fiercely contested election between ODM and Jubilee was marred by violence that saw Ekeno&#39;s two daughters shot and wounded in an attack on his home.His eight-year-old daughter, Felistus Ekaale, is admitted in Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital with a bullet lodged in her body.The by-election was also a show of might between Governor Josephat Nanok, who led the ODM campaigns, and Senator John Munyes of Jubilee. Mr Munyes has vowed to wrestle the governorship from Nanok next year.Mr Ekeno said he did not hold a grudge against those who attacked his home and shot his children.&quot;I have asked God to forgive them as I have also forgiven them. I also thank the people of Kalokol for believing in me,&quot; Ekeno said.The same script played out in Nyacheki Ward in Kisii County, where ODM&#39;s Naftal Onkoba managed 2,216 votes to beat Jubilee&#39;s Maxwell Magoma who garnered 1,173 votes.But Jubilee rejected the results, citing irregularities. In a statement, former Ford People chairman Albert Nyaundi said Jubilee would appeal the results.Mr Nyaundi claimed the by-election was marred by vote buying and violence.&quot;That is why we are not conceding defeat. We will take the necessary legal action to have the results nullified,&quot; he said.However, Jubilee was lucky in Sala Ward, Tana River County, where Fauzia Hachewele Sadik garnered 1,184 votes to win back the seat left by her father, Said Sadik Karani, who died in April. Ibrahim Ware of Safina got 210 votes while Mohamed Dabaso of ODM got 96.ODM leaders warned Jubilee of more humiliating defeats in next year&#39;s elections.Director of Elections Junet Mohammed and MPs Timothy Bosire (Kitutu Masaba), Elijah Memusi (Kajiado Central), Simba Arati (Dagoretti North), Aisha Jumwa (Kilifi Woman Representative) and Mishi Mboko (Mombasa Woman Representative) termed the ODM victories a protest vote against Jubilee.&quot;The merited victories are not by luck but came through hard work, determination and people&#39;s resolve for change to usher in good leadership and governance. It is a sign of what awaits Jubilee on August 8, 2017,&quot; said Mr Mohammed.The party said despite Jubilee&#39;s attempt to use money and intimidation, the electorate had stood firm and told the ruling party off by dropping its candidates. The leaders said the three wins were an indication that party leader Raila Odinga was poised to beat Uhuru and Ruto.They said the wins also cemented the long-held view that ODM was the most popular party and told the President and his deputy to be ready to pack and go home after next year&#39;s General Election.&quot;We want to sound a warning to the corrupt and inept Jubilee leadership - your time is up. Prepare to pack and leave. The country is boiling for change and the journey is unstoppable,&quot; said Mohammed.Mr Bosire said the Jubilee defeats were an indicator that Kenyans were politically conscious and could not be bought.