Deputy President William Ruto yesterday said his forays into Opposition strongholds were yielding fruit.Speaking in Taita Mauche Secondary School in Njoro, Nakuru County, Ruto said 40 MPs from CORD strongholds had joined the new Jubilee Party following his intense political visits. &ldquo;We have 15 MPs from Western region, another 11 from Wiper backyard and 18 from the Coast who have joined us. Jubilee is the party to beat in next year&rsquo;s election,&rdquo; he said.The Deputy President told off the Opposition for criticising the new party. &ldquo;Our friends in the Opposition are confused. As you saw, they were criticising the formation of Jubilee Party. But if you&rsquo;ve been reading the news, they now want to form one party to face Jubilee,&rdquo; he said.Ruto asked Njoro residents to support the Jubilee Party, saying it was keen on uniting Kenyans and ending divisive politics.&ldquo;We have developed an economic roadmap that will transform this country. You should not be swayed by those in the Opposition who want to divide the country,&rdquo; he said.Ruto faulted Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto, saying while he was busy planning how to win the presidency in&nbsp; 2022, the governor was playing cheap politics.&ldquo;Whereas we have serious development plans to lead this country, some of these leaders are only interested in local politics,&rdquo; Ruto said.Energy Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter also told off Governor Ruto, saying he has nothing serious to offer the Kalenjin community.At Ngwataniro Secondary School, Ruto said the government had set aside Sh600 million for the Last Mile Connectivity project in Nakuru County. The government hopes to increase Kenyans&rsquo; access to electricity through the project. He said the government will distribute 45 milk coolers to boost milk production in the country and asked residents of Njoro to take advantage of the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF), which now offers insurance cover a one year to expectant mothers.&ldquo;This will not only cover maternity fees, but all medication for new born babies and their mothers for one year,&rdquo; Ruto said amid cheer from the locals.He told residents that the Mauche-Silibwet road which links Bomet and Nakuru counties will be launched soon.Poor stateThe Deputy President also promised locals that Mwisho wa Lami-Narok road which is in a sorry state will be tarmacked. He assured Njoro residents that a caveat on land sale in the area will be lifted as soon as negotiations between a group of residents who had moved to court and the government are completed.&ldquo;In two or three months, this caveat will be lifted. The government will soon finalise an agreement with locals who had moved to court,&rdquo; he said.Ruto said the government had increased the number of elderly persons who benefit from the cash transfer programme from 5,300 in 2013 to more than 20,000 currently.The DP was accompanied by area MP Joseph Kiuna, Bahati&rsquo;s Kimani Ngunjiri, Kuresoi North&rsquo;s Moses Cheboi, Nakuru Woman Representative Mary Mbugua and Nakuru Deputy Governor Joseph Ruto.Ruto gave Sh3 million for construction of laboratory and classrooms in Ngwataniro Secondary School and another Sh3 million to Taita Mauche Secondary School for a laboratory.