EUROPE: Hani Salam escaped civil war in Syria and survived the journey from Egypt to Europe. But when he saw men with bushy long beards at a mosque near his current home in Cologne last November, he was worried. The men&#39;s appearance reminded him of Jaish al-Islam, the Islamist rebels who took over his hometown near Damascus, said Salam, 36, who wears a mustache but no beard. One of them told Salam that &quot;good Muslims grow beards, not moustaches,&quot; he recalled &ndash; a centuries-old idea that he dismisses. &quot;Everything about this mosque made me feel uneasy,&quot; he said. Syrians in Germany say many of the country&#39;s Arab mosques are more conservative than those at home. Over two months, a dozen Syrians in six places of worship in three cities told Reuters they were uncomfortable with very conservative messages in Arabic-speaking mosques. People have criticized the way the newcomers dress and practice their religion, they said. Some insisted the Koran be interpreted word-for-word. It is a highly contentious issue in a country where Europe&#39;s migrant influx is already having deep political and social consequences. In Germany this year Alternative for Germany, a populist party that says Islam is incompatible with the German constitution, has gained ground. There have been several attacks by militant Muslims. Syrians and others say the mosque problem is adding to mistrust. READ MORE SLOVENIA HERE WE COME:Kenya, Egypt qualify for World championships HEED MY CALL: Harambee Starlets coach calls for concentration against Egypt Egypt and Thika Queens share spoils in friendly tie In Germany, other different faiths are traditionally supported by the state. But most of the country&#39;s four million Muslims originally came from Turkey and attend Turkish-speaking mosques which are partly funded by Ankara. Last year around 890,000 asylum-seekers, more than 70 percent of them Muslims, entered the country. Around a third came from Syria. Many of them do not want to go to Turkish mosques because they do not understand the sermons. They prefer to worship where people speak Arabic.&lrm; Yet in these mosques, other problems arise. They are often short of funds, or else supported by Saudi Arabia and the Gulf states. Some back ultra-conservative or highly literal interpretations of Islam, such as Wahhabism or Salafism. &quot;Unfortunately it is true that a large majority of Arabic-speaking mosques are more conservative than Turkish mosques,&quot; said Professor Mouhannad Khorchide, who heads the Centre for Islamic Theology at Muenster University. That poses problems for integrating those who are less conservative. &quot;How can one absorb these people if they are interested in their religion?&quot; said Khorchide. &quot;When there is a shortage of offers the Salafists try to fill the gap.&quot; &quot;PURE ISLAMIC TEACHINGS&quot; GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 4 Next &raquo;