Over the past week, Kenyans have been hyperventilating everywhere. Journalists have gone amok. You would think Armageddon is upon us. It&rsquo;s all because last week &mdash; on Mashujaa Day &mdash; Jubilee&rsquo;s Uhuru Kenyatta read out a funny list of Kenya&rsquo;s heroes. On that list were some genuine national heroes. But there was a &ldquo;basket of deplorables.&rdquo; The list included some known looters, criminals, and home guards. Either the factotum who compiled the list was a complete ignoramus, or he&rsquo;s a malignant menace to the public. The list has been vilified not so much by who was on it, but because of who was not on it. Call it the crime of omission. I beg to differ with those sweating over the list.I understand why so many are throwing fits over Mr Kenyatta&rsquo;s list. Mashujaa Day used to be synonymous with one individual &mdash; Mzee Jomo Kenyatta. Before the passage of the 2010 Constitution, it was known as Kenyatta Day and was reserved for the Kapenguria Six &mdash; Achieng Aneko, Bildad Kaggia, Fred Kubai, Kung&rsquo;u Karumba, Paul Ngei, and the Burning Spear himself. But the 2010 Constitution revolutionised the holiday and renamed it Heroes&rsquo; Day to collectively honour, recognise, and celebrate those who before and after independence have played positive roles in Kenya. The Constitution democratised the sacrifice of Kenyans who&rsquo;s played a key role in advancing Kenya. No longer would heroes be only those in the museum of antiquities.In the early implementation of Mashujaa Day, the occupant of State House has interpreted his mandate as one that requires the recognition of heroes by name. Titles are given out and accolades read out aloud. Political hacks, court jesters, and favour seekers compete to get names on the list. No one knows &mdash; at least I haven&rsquo;t seen published criteria or process by which individuals get on the list. My guess is that absent an accountable body to vet and decide who gets on the list, all manner of scoundrels end up on it. And genuine heroes who should be on it are left out. The list is used to settle scores, level slights, and recognise cronies. It&rsquo;s all political. If the process of compiling the list of heroes lacks basic integrity and is at the discretion of the occupant of State House and his factotums, then it&rsquo;s weaponised against opponents, dissidents, and democrats. It&rsquo;s open to plutocrats and those who&rsquo;ve actually worked against Kenya. Or it becomes another perk to curry favour in an election season. It is corrupted like everything else in Kenya. In other words, it&rsquo;s a subversion of the Constitution. Methinks this is why Kenyans are seeing red. They want the occupant of State House to read a list that&rsquo;s credible. Not proffer a list that rubs out our history. They don&rsquo;t want a list of notorious characters, a list of infamy. Not in their name.This year&rsquo;s list of heroes was notable for the omission of the greatest opposition politician Kenya has known. The doyen of opposition politics &mdash; Jaramogi Oginga Odinga &mdash; was conspicuously missing from the list read by Mr Kenyatta. So were many others, including his son Raila, and the legion of those who ended one-party rule and brought democracy to Kenya. But it was Jaramogi&rsquo;s omission that galled Kenyans, and cut like a sharp knife to the belly. Many wondered whether Mr Kenyatta was settling scores with the Odingas in the long-running family feud. Others asked whether he was writing off the contribution of the left to Kenya&rsquo;s march to freedom. Or did he just plain forget to include him?The public consensus was that a sinister motive was at work. Some commentators argued that Mr Kenyatta wasn&rsquo;t speaking or acting in his personal capacity. They contended that he can&rsquo;t use his public office to re-write history. He can&rsquo;t in his official capacity make heroes out of non-heroes and non-heroes into heroes. The condemnation was universal. Kenyans on social media were especially incensed. But mud-fests inevitably followed with some Jubilee supporters arguing that Jaramogi was no hero and was rightly omitted. That was a new one for me. But my take was different. I tweeted that Kenyans should stop whining because Mr Kenyatta didn&rsquo;t recognise Jaramogi as a hero. Mr Kenyatta doesn&rsquo;t make heroes. Jaramogi is a hero whether he&rsquo;s recognised by Mr Kenyatta, or not.There&rsquo;s a larger lesson in this Mashujaa debacle. First, either the Legislature or the Executive must establish criteria for who qualifies to be a hero. Second, an accountable body should be created to receive and vet nominations for heroes. Third, the whole process must be de-politicised. In the alternative, let&rsquo;s not even make or read a list heroes on Mashujaa Day.Let&rsquo;s celebrate the &ldquo;Unknown Kenyan Hero&rdquo; on that day. The one who toiled in darkness.