Two Standard Group journalists have been awarded the top prize at this year&rsquo;s CNN MultiChoice African Journalist 2016 Awards ceremony.Asha Ahmed Mwilu and Rashid Iddi shared the overall &lsquo;CNN MultiChoice African Journalist of the Year&rsquo; Award for their report titled &lsquo;Terror Crossing&rsquo; aired on &ldquo;The Lead&rdquo;, an investigative broadcast by the country&rsquo;s premier television station, Kenya Television Network (KTN). The winning entry was chosen from a record number of 1,637 stories. The Standard Group journalists were ranked the best among 38 finalists at a colourful gala in South Africa on Saturday night.Asha and Rashid&rsquo;s &lsquo;Terror Crossing&rsquo; is an in-depth investigative documentary about security on the Kenya-Somalia border in Mandera County.Kenyans within the audience responded with applause and cheers as the winners were announced at the Gallagher Convention Centre in Johannesburg.PRESTIGIOUS AWARD&ldquo;I am happy at winning this prestigious award and I thank my mother who always stood by me as I worked on the stories. I also thank my colleagues at KTN and SG newsroom, Wellington Nyongesa and the video editors who made it possible for the entry to win,&rdquo; said Asha.Asha challenged female journalists to go for hard news even as their male counterparts shone at the event. Iddi dedicated the win to his family.Dominic Omondi, a business writer with The Standard, also received a commendation for his piece, &ldquo;How thriving &lsquo;reject economy&rsquo; is allowing the poor to live high life of the rich&rdquo;.&ldquo;It&rsquo;s a high-impact story told in the wake of Kenya&rsquo;s plans to build a wall at her border with Somalia,&rdquo; judges said.Asha is currently pursuing a master&rsquo;s degree at the University for the Creative Arts, Farnham, having received the 2015-2016 Chevening Scholarship. Iddi has worked in various media houses, with experience spanning 13 years, and is currently a senior cameraman for KTN.Standard Group CEO Sam Shollei, who was present at the event, was elated at the feat by Standard Group staff. He said it showed bravery and dismissed claims that female journalists only chased soft stories.&ldquo;The team has demonstrated determination towards excellence and a desire to tell life-changing stories that impact society,&rdquo; Mr Shollei said.Broadcast Managing Director Joe Munene congratulated the winners for their great achievement.&ldquo;At KTN, we have always had and continue to have a strong heritage of news leadership and this win re-affirms our position as a foremost source of media excellence. We remain committed to delivering the very best of professional journalism and this reality is evident in our very popular KtnNews, Kenya&rsquo;s only 24-hour news channel,&rdquo; Mr Munene said.INTERNATIONAL RECOGNITIONStandard Group Editorial Director Joseph Odindo said, &ldquo;We are delighted with this award which is an affirmation of the high standards of journalism and professionalism of our editorial staff. Only the other day, our website received international recognition and we are confident we will continue to do better.&rdquo;And Joe Ageyo, KTN&rsquo;s managing editor, commended Asha and Iddi. &ldquo;The CNN award is a great victory for journalism of courage. The continental recognition therefore gives us even greater impetus to stay the course in seeking the truth and telling it,&rdquo; he said.Greg Beitchman, VP, Content Sales and Partnerships for CNN International, said: &ldquo;Quality journalism has shone once again at this year&rsquo;s awards. Congratulations to all of tonight&rsquo;s finalists and winners, especially to overall winners Asha Ahmed Mwilu and Rashid Iddi for their powerful reporting. We look forward to welcoming them at the CNN Journalism Fellowship in Atlanta.&rdquo;Tim Jacobs, the MultiChoice Africa CEO, said: &ldquo;Congratulations to all the winners! Your unique way of storytelling has captured the hearts and minds of Africans and those beyond our borders. The awards have not only had a profound effect on the African media landscape but have catapulted winners into senior positions and success. As MultiChoice Africa we remain committed to recognising excellence in journalism in Africa.&rdquo;