When the Nest Manor residence and suites was designed, it was aimed at giving the building a royal feel, inspired by the desire to achieve a homely feeling away from home. The word manor is described a large country house. History, it refers to an estate with a royal charter or owned by a Lord. Grandiose is something the architects of this hotel, led by Kenneth Kilole, seem to have had in mind.The hotel, which depicts a castle-look and is aspiring upon completion to achieve a five star rating, is a boutique hotel sitting under Mt Kenya in the King&rsquo;ong&rsquo;o area of Nyeri. &ldquo;The hotel sits in a master plan called the Nest Park Village where it will comprise well-planned residential town houses and apartments in Nyeri Town,&rdquo; Peter Mahu, the proprietor, told Home &amp; Away.Construction of the towns houses and apartments will start from the first quarter of next year. Mahu said the hotel, which is still under construction with a completion date slated for the fourth quarter of 2017, will have 25 rooms.The hotel will also have a suspended heated swimming pool with a well-equipped spa with sauna, steam bath and a modern gym. &ldquo;Also on the cards are modern conference facilities, including meeting rooms, a reception and food courts,&rdquo; said Mahu.OwnershipHe said they plan to sell the hotel rooms to investors who will be entitled to monthly rental income for the rest of their lives. He said that the three types of rooms &mdash; deluxe, executive and premier &mdash; suites will be co-owned by five individuals.A deluxe suite room investor will pay Sh1.94 million per share with a deposit of Sh500,000 and payment of Sh120,000 per month for a year.According to Mahu, the return on investment for a deluxe room will be Sh315,000 per annum for an individual. For the executive suite room, one will part with Sh2.4 million per share with a deposit of Sh600,000 and payment of Sh150,000 per month for 12 months. The return on investment for an executive room for an individual will be Sh395,000 per year.For the premier suite room, one will pay Sh3.6 million per share with a deposit of Sh900,000 and payment of Sh225,000 per month for 12 months. The return on investment for a premier room for an individual will be Sh595,000 per annum. The hotel will be run by a management company.Upon completion of payments, an individual is entitled to a free holiday for six days in a year, with discounted rates for meals in the restaurants.The developers are also behind another project, Thika Golden Pearl gated community estate, on the Thika-Gatanga Road on 84 acres of land.The concept for the development is to sell plots to buyers planning to build their own homes with the pre-determined master plan for construction coming from Thika Golden Pearl.The estate includes a social park complete with a fitness centre, an aerobic swimming pool, a basket ball court, tennis court, and skating pathways.