Kenya&rsquo;s rise by 21 slots in the ease of doing business index has been hailed as a significant step towards strengthening the economy.Speaking during the formal launch of international bookmaker Betway on Wednesday, the Chairman of Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry Kiprono Kittony said the rise was a boon to the private sector. &ldquo;I think it is a wonderful achievement by our private sector and by our government. Kenya is moving in such leaps and bounds that we are almost unstoppable,&rdquo; Kittony said. &ldquo;We are heading to a political campaigns period, which in the past has hurt our economy. I think this time round, with the improved ease of doing business, we could be insulated from the negative effects occasioned by these campaigns.&rdquo;The launch was graced by industry leaders in Kenya including Safaricom CEO Bob Collymore, Peter Kenneth, AlyKhan Satchu and Lord Anthony St John of UK House of Representatives.Kittony praised the gains brought about new investments in Kenya. &ldquo;A few years ago, the only form of gaming in Kenya was the charity sweepstake. All they had was a little wooden box and there was an old lady sitting there with a few things that looked like stamps and we always thought whoever walked up to them to buy a ticket had something wrong in the head,&rdquo; Kittony explained.&ldquo;Today we have complex gaming. We have Kenyan companies sponsoring first division teams in English football. Gaming is a major force today and a major contributor to reform and improvement of sports globally,&rdquo; Kittony said. Betway Kenya Country Manager Wanja Gikonyo said the business environment had made it possible for the gaming company to successfully launch its business locally.&ldquo;The Betway Global Group started in 2006 to provide first-class entertainment across sports betting. And the expansion to Africa started with Kenya and we are now in three countries, including Ghana and Uganda,&rdquo; Wanja said.Betway Kenya is involved in sports sponsorship with the 2008 Kenyan Premier League champions Mathare United, which Wanja said demonstrates the company&rsquo;s commitment to the developing sports in the country.&ldquo;Various initiatives are already underway to uplift and support local leagues across different sporting disciplines, to improve club facilities and to enhance player skills,&rdquo; Wanja said, adding that the ongoing Betway Talent Search aims to identify grassroots talent which has already attracted over 2,000 applicants.