Swiss Guards are highly trained soldiers, some of whom provided round the clock security to Pope Francis during his stay in Kenya.Also known as the Pontifical Swiss Guard of the Holy See, the unit is stationed at the Vatican in Rome and has a bodyguard-like role. It was officially established in January 22, 1506 and is now 510 years old - making it one of the oldest standing military units in the world.It is also one of the smallest with about 110 to 125 soldiers and senior officers at any given time yet their prompt and swift actions are legendary. Their motto in Latin is &ldquo;Acriter Fidelier&rdquo; which means &ldquo;Bravely Faithful&rdquo;. This unit has never been to war.Recruitment takes place by a special agreement between the Holy See and Switzerland and one must meet the following stringent requirements:They must be a male Catholic holding Swiss citizenship and be between 19 and 30 years of age. He should be at least five feet or 8.5 inches or 174 centimetres tall, not married or attached and must have completed basic military training. They are also expected to produce a certificate of good conduct and have a high school diploma or professional degree.These requirements have remained unchanged since 1507.In the 1400s, members of the Swiss Guard operated as soldiers-for-hire available to other states or potentates apart from the Vatican.Although officially established in 1506, it was not until 1874 that the Swiss Government amended the constitution stating that only the Vatican can hire the Swiss Guard. Then in 1970, the unit became the exclusive, official military force for the Vatican.At first it was more of a ceremonial military unit but focus shifted to protecting the Pope after the first attempted assassination of Pope John Paul II on May 13, 1981 at Saint Peter&rsquo;s Square.The soldiers are armed with modern and sophisticated weaponry and stay up to date with latest technology to keep threats at bay. They are also trained in unarmed combat and use traditional weapons such as swords while pepper spray and teargas remain at their disposal.New recruits are sworn in on May 6 every year. The ceremony takes place at the Saint Damaso Courtyard, within the Vatican, and each recruit recites the oath in either English, German, French or Italian languages.The Papal guards are paid an annual tax free salary of 15,600 Euros as well as over-time. They live in a centralised barrack, located near the Pointifical apartments, where they are given free accommodation. The barrack has a mess and training hall, living quarters and gym facilities.Their uniform was designed in 1914 and comprises of blue, red, orange and yellow colours with distinctly Renaissance appearance. They also wear the more modern, specially tailored business suits especially when they accompany the Pope in his travels.Their duties also include protecting the College of Cardinals during Papal transitions, guarding entrances to Vatican City and performing other security and honorary services.Their ceremonial commander is the Pope Francis while Christoph Graf is the commander holding the rank of Colonel and vice commander is Lieutenant Colonel Philippe Morard.They have a special flag: One that is squared and divided by a white cross into quarters. The lower right corner has Pope Julius II&rsquo;s coat-of-arms, while the upper left has coat-of-arms of the reigning or current Pope. The other two have stripes in guards&rsquo; uniform colours.Their presence is a source of comfort to Catholics around the world who can rest easy knowing that their spiritual leader is well guarded.