The Government has been accused of failing to take care of four mentally challenged and physically disabled persons. The four were abandoned in Njoro, Nakuru County, and were among tens of others under the care of Australian missionary, Ian Castlemen, who had opened an orphanage at his private property in Molo before court ordered its closure in 2012. State institutions, however, refused to take the four because of their disabilities and have since then been moving from one orphanage to another where they are turned down forcing them to go back to their former orphanage, which is in deplorable condition. When The Standard visited the home yesterday, the four who cannot do basic things on their own, were in poor condition; dirty and abandoned. Mr Castleman said the four, two males and two females, had been taken to a Government facility in Maralal but were returned&nbsp;and abandoned in his compound by State officers who said they could not manage their needs. &quot;The four were taken in an orphanage in Maralal but shortly after, the home returned them on grounds that it was not able to manage them,&quot; said Castleman. READ MORE Think ahead on Commission on Revenue Allocation (CRA) in devolved Kenya Spotlight on county facilities as Uhuru devolves State fetes Governor Ruto lives to face Senate committee Though the court ordered the missionary not to house the orphans, he said he had no option but to house them in his home with no support because the society had rejected them. &quot;I am not supposed to keep children in my home, which was declared private but I can&#39;t throw them away because those who are supposed to take care of them threw them back to me,&quot; said Castleman. He said one of the disabled was epileptic and under strong medication, which required close monitoring and delicate care and it has been a struggle meeting his medical needs, as well as food. &quot;The four lack basic necessities like food, clothing and moral support. I have used whatever I had, because, well-wishers pulled out after the court order,&quot; he said. His effort to have the four housed at Chebonde cottage in Njoro, a Government facility, has not been fruitful. &quot;My heart was in pain when I visited the Government cottage, which openly discriminated against them,&quot; he said. GO TO PAGE 1 2 Next &raquo;