The former sleepy region of North Eastern Kenya is waking up, literally.There is a noticeable stir in the vast region that is nearly a half of Kenya&rsquo;s 580,000km square land mass.For a long time the vast swathes of land lay as wasteland; a useless bowl of choking, irritating dust especially when blown by the wind. There was little it could give forth to man; it swallowed all the water. Step on the loose ones and it can even swallow a man. That is no more.Obviously, you cannot ignore the cases of insecurity that erupt every so often, but on the whole, there is something noticeable happening in northern frontier counties.Sample this; firstly, more than 80 per cent of all the oil exploration in the country is taking place in seven of the frontier counties that have joined hands to form the Frontier Counties Development Council (FCDC) comprising Isiolo, Marsabit, Lamu, Tana River, Wajir, Mandera and Garissa.Secondly, most of the Vision 2030 flagship projects like Lapsset, the resort cities, refinery and an international airport have all been proposed for construction in FCDC counties. Suddenly, the purse strings have opened.This will certainly not erase a brutal past that includes proven acts of a Government turning on its own people.In 1966 at the start of the Shifta wars in Northern Kenya, the Kenyan police opened fire and killed scores of worshippers at the main Mosque in Isiolo while the faithful were praying.That incident remained seared in the memories of the people and has forever defined the relations between the North and specifically, the national government sitting in Nairobi.Thankfully, that is all in the past and there have been deliberate efforts to breed a rapprochement with the rest of the country.Needless to say, devolution has in many ways helped unleash the huge potential of the region. The people see themselves not as passive, but active participants in their governance.Today, no one talks about that dark past.Time has moved and with it, the feelings of bitterness have subsided quite significantly. Of course, there is the usual feeling of being left to one&rsquo;s own means, but surely, there is light at the end of the tunnel.We are no longer the people that Kenya left behind. The region is galloping right behind.And so, the people talk optimistically about the future. Joint meetings of governors across the region point to a common agenda that must be executed urgently.Their vision to steer their counties to benefit from the shared resources and create a common platform to lobby for more resources to spur growth in their region is shared widely.They acknowledge that development will not &ldquo;come&rdquo; on its own.It has to be initiated.The mission is loud and clear; FCDC leaders want to be part of mainstream Kenya. They no longer want to accept a peripheral role.That is why they came up with a very ambitious but achievable development blueprint.Of course they know they alone cannot surmount the challenges presented.Development partners like the World Bank, the United Nation agencies, and the Swiss Development Corporation have demonstrated eagerness and willingness to stand with FCDC.In July, plans for a tarmacked road from Isiolo to Mandera were approved. The Bank has also agreed to fund water projects and provide off-grid electricity to the seven counties. This will cost roughly $1 billion.The injection of $1 billion into the North Eastern economy is phenomenal. It is probably the largest investment the Northern Frontier counties have seen ever.What&rsquo;s more, in one fell swoop, the idea of FCDC has become Kenya&rsquo;s new development corridor.The classical investment areas around the Kenya-Uganda railway will now be decongested. The new frontier offers fathomless space to investors who will no longer have to worry about space.FCDC counties will offer all the ingredients necessary for industries and businesses to operate optimally.The amount of natural resources in FCDC counties alone (oil, gas and mineral deposits, wildlife and game, huge tracts of land for all kinds of agriculture) will add so much into the country&rsquo;s GDP.The sky is the limit. As I write this, I feel I could fly. I imagine that my people will no longer trundle the clich&eacute;; &ldquo;tunaomba serikali itusaidie&rdquo;.With rising literacy and skill rates, poverty should reduce significantly. The governors have vowed to ensure there are zero maternal deaths in their regions to stabilise the population. An impending economic boom will be sustained by a strong human resource factor.Most importantly, the nagging issue of insecurity will be a thing of the past. Security is a factor of development.In other words, security is a matter of chicken and egg; poverty fuels insecurity and insecurity fuels poverty. And where this cycle is not broken, communities get enslaved in poverty and insecurity.And so the new development offers the youth something to live for where previously, hordes of educated, unemployed youth provided a ready swamp for those out to recruit them into militancy.