&nbsp; {Photo:Courtesy} Vatican City:Father Ernest Simoni, a 88-year-old Albanian, was watching Pope Francis on television this month when, to his astonishment, he heard the pontiff mention his name. Francis announced that the simple, white-haired Roman Catholic priest, who had spent many years in jail during Albania&#39;s communist dictatorship, was to become a cardinal. It was the first that Simoni, or any of the other 16 new cardinals named by Francis at the same time, had heard of their elevation to the prestigious rank. &quot;I did not believe either my ears or eyes,&quot; Simoni told Reuters in Albania. &quot;The pope said it, but I could not believe it. &#39;Can he be talking about another Ernest?&#39; I said to myself.&quot; But more significantly, the pope had also kept nearly the entire Vatican hierarchy in the dark about his decision, which he announced on Oct. 9 to thousands of pilgrims. READ MORE Swiss Guard: Soldiers who do not go to war Maradona clashes with Juan Sebastian Veron during Pope Francis' Match for Peace Pope calls for 'immediate ceasefire' in Syria The episode illustrates how Francis has used his own distinct management style to try to shake up the Church since his election in 2013. He is keeping his cards close to his chest as he tries to push through a progressive agenda to make the Church more welcoming in the face of conservative opposition. Interviews with a dozen current and past Vatican officials and aides paint a portrait of Pope Francis, a Jesuit who turns 80 in December, as eschewing filters between him and the outside world. He carries his own black briefcase, keeps his own agenda, and makes many of his own calls. In contrast, his two immediate predecessors, Benedict XVI and John Paul II, worked hand-in-hand with the Vatican bureaucracy, which is known as the curia. Behind Francis&#39;s approach is a clear mandate, received from the worldwide cardinals who elected him in 2013, to overhaul the curia. Over the decades the Vatican&#39;s administration has collected some of the Church&#39;s most orthodox officials, partly because of the lieutenants that Francis&#39;s two highly-conservative predecessors called to their entourages in Rome. As a result, Francis believes that only by reducing the power of the curia &ndash; including surprising it on some decisions - can the 1.2 billion-member Church embrace those who have felt marginalized, such as gays and the divorced. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 4 Next &raquo;