Vulnerable communities affected by drought in Northern Kenya will receive relief food and water to help them tide over the trying period, a governor has said. Ali Roba, the Mandera County Governor said his government is seeking to distribute relief food, through the Department of Special Programmes, to 63,000 households in all the six Sub-counties as his administration strives to provide the residents with water and feed them too. He said a total of 1,066 metric tonnes of food including 12,540 bags of 50kgs of rice, 6,270 bags of 50kgs of beans and 6,966 containers of 18kgs of vegetable oil will be distributed. He added that the delay of short rains triggered the famine which the county government has declared a disaster and is coming up with contingency measures to mitigate effects of drought that has ravaged Northern Kenya and areas of the Coast region such as Kwale and Lamu counties. In Kwale, the most affected areas are Kinango and Samburu, semi-arid areas on the Mombasa-Nairobi highway while in Kilifi, Kaya Fungo and Mwana Mwinga areas in Kaloleni and Bamba ward in Ganze constituency. In Lamu, Mkunumbi, Hongwe, Pandanguo, Witu, Koreni and Basuba have been affected by the lack of rainfall. &ldquo;In Kwale we have cases were mothers are discharged after delivery because of lack of water to bath the new born,&rdquo; said Ester Nyavula, a human rights activist in Kwale. READ MORE Major crisis as rivers dry up due to biting drought Steps to ensure your livestock stay alive during the drought Declare drought a national disaster, Uhuru told Kwale Deputy Commissioner Moses Ivuto said most affected areas in the Kinango Sub-county are Samburu, Chengoni, Vigurungani where over 160,000 people face starvation. In Mandera, the governor said each beneficiary will be entitled to a ration of 10kgs cereals, 5kgs pulses and 2kgs vegetable oil. He added that due to shortage of pasture, sheep and goats have been adversely affected. &ldquo;The pasture is poor in terms of quantity and quality and what is available is far from water points and that increases the risk,&rdquo; he said. To save livestock, the County Government will purchase 70,000 bales of hay to be distributed to the most-affected pastoral communities. His administration has also embarked on trucking water to livestock to reduce the distance animals have to cover to water points. Further, the administration has also undertaken massive vaccination and deworming of livestock hrough the Regional Pastoral Livelihoods Resilience Project. The County Government is currently trucking water to 141 centres, which include 15 strategic water points. GO TO PAGE 1 2 3 4 Next &raquo;